!~ABS~! Xylem vessel cells develop secondary cell walls in distinct patterns. Cortical microtubules are rearranged into distinct patterns and regulate secondary cell wall deposition; however, it is unclear how exocytotic membrane trafficking is linked to cortical microtubules. Here, we show that the novel coiled-coil proteins vesicle tethering 1 (VETH1) and VETH2 recruit EXO70A1, an exocyst subunit essential for correct patterning of secondary cell wall deposition, to cortical microtubules via the conserved oligomeric Golgi complex (COG) 2 protein. VETH1 and VETH2 encode an uncharacterized domain of an unknown function designated DUF869, and were preferentially up-regulated in xylem cells. VETH1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) and VETH2–GFP co-localized at novel vesicle-like small compartments, which exhibited microtubule plus-end-directed and end-tracking dynamics. VETH1 and VETH2 interacted with COG2, and this interaction promoted the association between cortical microtubules and EXO70A1 These results suggest that the VETH–COG2 complex ensures the correct secondary cell wall deposition pattern by recruiting exocyst components to cortical microtubules.
!~RES~! To identify novel proteins that regulate membrane trafficking during secondary cell wall patterning mediated by cortical microtubules, we searched the ATTED-II database (CITATION) to select genes that exhibit high co-expression patterns with MIDD1, which is a xylem-specific gene encoding an essential MAP for secondary cell wall patterning (CITATION). An uncharacterized gene, VETH1 (AT3G05270), showed the highest co-expression profile with MIDD1 (Supplementary Table S1). VETH1 encodes an uncharacterized protein of 615 amino acids, designated DUF869. Arabidopsis has seven VETH1 paralogs that show approximately 65.3–80.1% similarity and 18.5–37.4% identity with the VETH1 amino acid sequence (Supplementary Fig. S1A). These gene products are predicted to comprise two or more coiled-coil domains (Supplementary Fig. S1C). The expression database (CITATION, CITATION) suggests that VETH1 and its closest paralog VETH2 (AT1G21810) are preferentially expressed in differentiating root xylem cells, whereas another paralog in the same clade, VETH3 (AT1G77580), is not up-regulated in xylem cell files (Supplementary Figs. S1B, Supplementary Data). We quantified the mRNA levels of these two genes in our Arabidopsis suspension cell culture, in which estrogen supply triggers VND6 expression to induce xylem cell differentiation (CITATION). As expected, the levels of mRNA for both genes were 20-fold higher at 36 h after estrogen treatment (Supplementary Fig. S2B), confirming that these two genes are related to xylem cell differentiation. We previously identified the cis-element motif (CTTNAAAGCNA) designated TERE that is sufficient for xylem-specific expression (CITATION). We searched the TERE sequence in the promoter regions of VETH1 and VETH2, and found that neither promoter not includes TERE, suggesting that their expression in xylem cells is not dependent on TERE. To understand the function of the two coiled-coil proteins in xylem cells, we attempted to observe the localization of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged VETH1 and VETH2 under the control of their native promoters, including 2 kbp upstream from their start codons. However, we could not observe any GFP fluorescence. Because the promoter of the neighbor gene locus starts at 2 kbp upstream from the start codon of VETH1, it was not likely that the promoter region we used was not sufficient for VETH1 expression. Rather, the activity of the native promoters might be very weak and therefore was below the detection limit of the assay or VETH proteins might be highly unstable. Therefore, we introduced the GFP-tagged constructs under the control of the 35S promoter and the estradiol-inducible promoter (CITATION). The estradiol-inducible promoter enabled visualization of the GFP-tagged proteins in cultured xylem cells, whereas only very weak GFP fluorescence was detected under the 35S promoter. Therefore, we used the estrogen-inducible system to observe the GFP-tagged proteins. Both gene products were localized at motile vesicle-like small VETH recruits the exocyst to cortical microtubules compartments (Fig. 1A; Supplementary Movie 1). GFP–VETH1 and tag red fluorescent protein (RFP)–VETH2 co-localized at the same compartments (Supplementary Fig. S3). Their high similarity and subcellular co-localization suggest that these two proteins have redundant functions. The small compartments exhibited four types of dynamic movement: straight, turn, stop and random (Fig. 1B, C). The average velocity of straight movement was 60.9 ± 23.4 nm s−1 (SD, n > 100 vesicles), which is similar to the polymerization rate of cortical microtubules in Arabidopsis in planta (CITATION) and in Arabidopsis cultured cells (CITATION). Straight movement suggested that the vesicle-like small compartments were moving along the cytoskeleton; therefore, we next examined the effects of microtubule and actin inhibitors (Fig. 1C). Oryzalin, a microtubule depolymerization agent, markedly affected the localization of the GFP-tagged protein, and no vesicle-like compartments were observed in oryzalin-treated cells. Instead, large aggregations formed, which did not exhibit straight movement. Treatment with taxol (a microtubule stabilization agent) did not affect the morphology of the compartments but caused slightly reduced velocity of the compartments (42.4 ± 22.2 nm s−1, n > 100 compartments). In contrast, latrunculin B (an actin filament depolymerization agent) did not affect the morphology and velocity (74.6 ± 21.3 nm s−1, n > 100 compartments) of the compartments (Fig. 1C). These results suggest that the vesicle-like morphology and motility require intact cortical microtubules.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To track precisely the movement of VETH-positive compartments and microtubules, we simultaneously introduced 35S:tagRFP-TUB6 together with LexA:VETH1-GFP or LexA:VETH2-GFP into cultured xylem cells. As expected, VETH-positive compartments were observed preferentially at the tips and sides of cortical microtubules (Fig. 2A). Occasionally, VETH-positive compartments appeared to track the plus-end of growing cortical microtubules (Fig. 2B), while they did not track the plus-end of shrinking microtubules (Fig. 2C). VETH-positive compartments also associated with EB1, a plus-end-tracking protein (Fig. 2D). These results strongly suggest that VETH-positive compartments associate with growing microtubule plus-ends. This behavior was clearly different from that of smaCC/MASCs. Therefore the VETH-positive compartment is not likely to be a smaCC/MASC, but is a novel microtubule-associated compartment. We also observed that some compartments were attached to the side of cortical microtubules; subsequently, VETH-positive compartments appeared to split from the compartment and move toward the microtubule plus-end, resulting in further accumulation of GFP fluorescence at the microtubule plus-end (Fig. 2E–G). These observations suggest that VETH-positive compartments possess a plus-end-directed function. Our observations also determined that VETH-positive compartments transferred to another microtubule at microtubule crossing points (Fig. 2H), resulting in a turn movement of the compartments. Some VETH-positive compartments exhibited random motion during their dissociated from cortical microtubules (Fig. 2I). Our observations suggest that VETH-localized membrane compartments move throughout the cortical microtubule network.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To examine whether VETH-positive compartments populate conventional endomembrane trafficking pathways, we examined the co-localization of VETH constructs with endomembrane markers in Nicotiana benthamiana leaf epidermis using the Agrobacterium infiltration method (Supplementary Fig. S4). VETH2-GFP was co-introduced with ST-mRFP, mRFP-SYP31, mRFP-VAMP727 and mRFP-SYP61, which visualize the Golgi, cis-Golgi, endosome and TGN, respectively. VETH2–GFP did not co-localize with any of the tested endomembrane markers, although it did localize at vesicle-like small compartments even in tobacco epidermal cells. Therefore, VETH-positive compartments are unlikely to be elements in conventional endomembrane trafficking pathways. To clarify the function of VETH2 protein, we searched the interactome map generated by large-scale yeast two-hybrid screening (CITATION), and found that AT4G24840 interacted with VETH2 in yeast. AT4G24840 encodes an uncharacterized protein with the highest similarity to conserved COG2 protein, a putative subunit of the COG complex that is necessary for retrograde trafficking in the Golgi apparatus and for protein glycosylation in yeast and animal cells (CITATION). The AT4G24840 protein shows strong similarity with COG2 proteins from human and Caenorhabditis elegans (Supplementary Fig. S4). The similarity to and identity of AT4G24840 with human COG2 were 67.0% and 21.6%, respectively, and 62.2% and 15.6%, respectively, with C. elegans COG2; the similarity and identity of human COG2 with C. elegans COG2 were 51.0% and 11.3%, respectively. Therefore, AT4G24840 is likely to be a COG2 ortholog, and we designated this protein as AtCOG2. We next examined whether VETH1 and VETH2 interact with AtCOG2 in planta. AtCOG2–tagRFP co-localized with VETH1–GFP and VETH2–GFP at vesicle-like small compartments in N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells (Fig. 3A). Next, we performed a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay in which AtCOG2 and VETH proteins were tagged with the N- and C-terminal halves of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), respectively (to yield AtCOG2-N, VETH1-C and VETH2-C), and then co-introduced into N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells. Fluorescence was observed when AtCOG2-N was co-introduced together with VETH1-C or VETH2-C, but not when VETH1-N was co-introduced with VETH2-C (Fig. 3B). These results suggest that AtCOG2 interacts with both VETH1 and VETH2 in vivo.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Recent work showed that the exocyst subunit EXO70A1 is essential for secondary cell wall patterning and suggested that EXO70A1 regulates exocytosis at the plasma membrane domains marked with cortical microtubules (CITATION, CITATION). Therefore we hypothesized that EXO70A1 may be involved in membrane trafficking related to the VETH–COG2 complex in xylem cells. To test our hypothesis, we observed localization of EXO70A1 in cultured xylem cells. As expected, EXO70A1–tagRFP was localized at vesicle-like small compartments at cortical microtubules (Fig. 3C). Next, we examined the localization of EXO70A1 and the VETH–COG2 complex. First, we confirmed that VETH2 was co-localized with AtCOG2 (Fig 3D, 94.1%, n > 350 compartments), consistent with the observation using tobacco leaf epidermis. Although they were not co-localized in several compartments, this was probably due to translocation of the compartments during image acquisition for GFP and RFP. Then we examined localization of EXO70A1–tagRFP with VETH2–GFP and AtCOG–GFP. EXO70A1–tagRFP was almost co-localized with AtCOG2–GFP (Fig. 3E, 97.4%, n > 350 compartments). In contrast, EXO70A1–tagRFP partially co-localized with VETH2–GFP (Fig. 3F, 63.7%, n > 350 compartments). Some components were marked with either EXO70A1 or VETH2 (Fig. 3F). Co-localization of VETH2 and EXO70A1 was observed even in motile compartments (Supplementary Fig. S6), suggesting that their co-localization was not caused by incidental overlap. These results suggest that AtCOG2 is tightly associated with both EXO70A1 and VETH2, while the association between EXO70A1 and VETH2 is not static but under xylem-specific regulation possibly mediated by AtCOG2 To examine this possibility, we observed the effect of AtCOG2 on the localization of EXO70A1 and VETH2 in non-xylem N. benthamiana leaf epidermis. Because xylem-specific regulation of membrane trafficking should not be working in leaf epidermal cells, we expected that EXO70A1 does not co-localize with VETH2 in leaf epidermal cells. As expected, EXO70A1–tagRFP and VETH2–GFP were mostly localized in discrete compartments when they were co-introduced (Fig. 4A). Co-localization of EXO70A1–tagRFP and VETH2–GFP was observed at only 7.0% of compartments (n > 500 compartments). However, EXO70A1–tagRFP and VETH2–GFP were mostly co-localized in the small compartments when co-introduced with AtCOG2 (Fig. 4B, 90.5%, n > 500 compartments). These results suggest that AtCOG2 promotes co-localization of EXO70A1 and VETH2 in the same compartment and that VETH2-positive compartments are exocytotic vesicles or tethering complexes for exocytotic vesicles.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] A recent study reported that EXO70A1 is localized at plasma membrane-associated puncta but not localized at cortical microtubules in Arabidopsis epidermal cells (CITATION). In contrast, our data show that EXO70A1 was associated with cortical microtubules in xylem cells. Therefore, our observations raised the question of whether the VETH–COG2 complex is the key molecule that recruits EXO70A1 to the cortical microtubules. To resolve this, we visualized cortical microtubules and examined EXO70A1 localization in the absence or presence of exogenous VETH2 and COG2 in leaf epidermal cells. EXO70A1–tagRFP localized at numerous small components, but not on cortical microtubules, when EXO70A1–tagRFP was expressed alone or expressed together with VETH2 (Fig. 4C, D). However, EXO70A1 preferentially localized at compartments along cortical microtubules when expressed together with VETH2 and COG2 (Fig. 4E). This microtubule association of EXO70A1 was also observed when EXO70A1 was co-introduced with VND6 (CITATION), which is a transcription factor that induces xylem vessel differentiation (Fig. 4F). We quantified the area of EXO70A1 that overlapped with microtubules relative to the total area of EXO70A1 and confirmed that a significantly larger area of EXO70A1 overlapped with microtubules when EXO70A1 was co-expressed together with VETH2 and COG2 or with VND6 than when expressed alone or together with VETH2 (Supplementary Fig. S7). These results strongly suggest that the VETH2–COG2 complex recruits EXO70A1 to microtubule-associated compartments, and that this EXO70A1 recruitment to cortical microtubules is intrinsic to xylem cell differentiation. Because EXO70A1 is an essential subunit for exocytosis and secondary cell wall patterning, VETH–COG2 may promote local exocytosis at the plasma membrane domains marked with cortical microtubules by recruiting exocytotic vesicles or exocyst complexes to deposit secondary cell walls properly.
!~MM~! Cell culture and transformation of Arabidopsis thaliana Columbia (Col-0) suspension cells were performed as described previously (CITATION). Cells were observed under an inverted fluorescence microscope (IX83-ZDC, Olympus) fitted with a confocal unit (CSU-W1, Yokogawa), a cooled CCD camera (ORCA-R2, Hamamatsu Photonics), a UPLANSAPO 60× water-immersion objective (NA = 1.20, Olympus) and laser lines set at 488 and 561 nm. Acquired images were digitally analyzed using MetaMorph (Molecular Devices), ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/) and Photoshop (Adobe). To quantify the overlap area of EXO70A1 and microtubules, approximately 200×200 pixel regions were cropped and processed with the subtract background command (with 5 pixel radius) to remove noise and then processed with the threshold command (with Ohtsu option) of ImageJ to isolate the fluorescence-positive area for each channel. Co-localization of VETH, COG2 and EXO70A1 at vesicle-like compartments was determined by evaluating each labeled spot by eye, and they were manually counted on ImageJ. Transient expression of N. benthamiana leaf epidermis was performed as described previously (CITATION). Total RNA was prepared from Arabidopsis cells using the SDS–phenol method, treated with DNase, and purified using an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen) as described previously (CITATION). After reverse transcription with the oligo(dT20) primer and SuperScript III reverse transcriptase, quantitative real-time PCR was performed using a LightCycler 96 Instrument (Roche Diagnostics) with FastStart Essential DNA Green Master (Roche Diagnostics). To generate expression vectors for VETH1, VETH2, AtCOG2 and EXO70A1, DNA fragments of VETH1, VETH2, COG2, EXO70A1 and EXO70E2 were PCR-amplified and cloned into the pEntr/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen). These entry clones were recombined with the pMDC7 vector for untagged protein expression, with the pER-XR vector (CITATION) for C-terminal tagRFP fusion protein expression or with the pER-XG vector (CITATION) for C-terminal GFP fusion protein expression under the control of the XVE/LexA-inducible system (CITATION); recombination was performed using the LR clonase II mix (Invitrogen). For the BiFC assay, the entry clones were recombined with pER-X-YN and pER-X-YC to generate C-terminal fusions with the N-terminal half of EYFP and the C-terminal haf of EYFP, respectively. The pER-X-YN and pER-X-YC vectors were generated by inserting the N- or C-terminal halves of the EYFP sequence with a Gateway cassette into the AscI site of the pER8 vector. All clones were verified by DNA sequencing.
