!~ABS~! • TRH1 acts autonomously modulating root-hair elongation through auxin distribution. • Molecular modeling reveals two highly variable regions between K+ transporters. • Physical interactions identified between these two intracytoplasmic regions of TRH1. • These regions most likely control selective co-assembly of KUP/HAK/KT subunits. TRH1 acts autonomously modulating root-hair elongation through auxin distribution. Molecular modeling reveals two highly variable regions between K+ transporters. Physical interactions identified between these two intracytoplasmic regions of TRH1. These regions most likely control selective co-assembly of KUP/HAK/KT subunits.
!~RES~! Root hairs increase the root surface area, thereby enhancing water and nutrient uptake directly from soil into the root and then through the vascular tissues to the aerial parts. In Arabidopsis, root hairs are highly differentiated epidermal cells emerged from trichoblasts in the H position and arranged in alternating files with the atrichoblasts in the N position CITATION. Root-hair morphogenesis depends on biological events modulated by the interplay between developmental and environmental cues CITATION. The developmental pathway determines root epidermal cell fate through the regulatory network of transcription factors, whereas the environmental pathway modulates hormonal transport and signaling. To define the role of TRH1 within the genetic model of root-hair morphogenesis, crosses were performed between trh1 and mutants acting at the early stage of root-hair development affecting cell fate or patterning. Among these glabra2 (gl2), transparent testa glabra (ttg), caprice (cpc) and root hair defective 6 (rhd6) are recessive mutants of transcription factors that determine epidermal cell fate in Arabidopsis root CITATION. The constitutive triple response 1 (ctr1) is the mutant of a Raf-like protein kinase that upon ethylene perception is inactivated by receptors CITATION and root hair defective 3 (rhd3) of a GTP-binding protein involved in the generation of the tubular endoplasmic reticulum network CITATION. Genetic crosses to generate trh1 double mutants were feasible as the genetic mutations reside at chromosomes other than IV, where the TRH1 gene is located, and thereby is not linked with the other genes (Fig. S1). The double mutants of trh1 with the genetic mutations that control root-hair morphogenesis exhibit additive phenotypes (CITATIONA). Even though trh1gl2 and trh1ttg double mutants produce root hairs in both cell types of root epidermis (trichoblasts and atrichoblasts), due to GL2 and TTG mutated genes, these are short resembling the trh1 phenotype. As the mutation of CPC results in few root hairs, the trh1cpc double mutant forms reduced number of root-hair initiation sites, which as well fails to elongate. The trh1rhd3 mutant constantly presents a defective polarity of tip growth, which is a feature of rhd3 mutant, additionally to the failure of hair tip elongation due to TRH1 loss-of-function. The triple response phenotype of ctr1 mutation is evident in trh1ctr1 double mutant, albeit density and length of the root hairs are reduced. The outcome of these crosses indicates that irrespectively of trichoblast/atrichoblast selection site for root-hair initiation, TRH1 is required for root-hair growth and elongation. Unlike the other double mutants, the mutant phenotype of trh1rhd6 seems similar to rhd6 single mutant being almost hairless (CITATIONA). Given that RHD6 is required for the selection of the bulging site to initiate root-hair elongation on the trichoblast CITATION, the trh1rhd6 phenotype is most likely additive but not easily distinguished due to the severe root-hair phenotype of rhd6. Alternatively, the trh1rhd6 phenotype implies that RHD6 could be epistatic to TRH1. To clarify the interplay between TRH1 and the rest of the genes, the expression of TRH1 was monitored by RT-PCR analysis of RNA isolated from the single mutants (CITATIONB). The abundance of TRH1 transcripts in single mutants confirms that any of the mutants tested has no interference at the expression level of TRH1 and thereby rejects the epistatic interaction between RHD6 and TRH1. These results are consistent with transcriptome profile analysis data of TRH1 expression in root epidermal cells of core root epidermis mutants like rhd6, ttg1 and gl2 relatively to the wild-type CITATION. The dataset deposited in the root-hair gene expression database (www.roothairs.org) confirms that none of the mutants have any effect on TRH1 expression including rhd6 (Fig. S2). Consequently, the phenotype of all trh1 double mutants is additive. The results showing that TRH1 exerts its function in both trichoblasts and atrichoblasts clearly demonstrate that the activity of this K+ transporter is mainly to advance root-hair elongation as an independent and autonomous endeavor in root-hair growth. On the basis of our genetic and molecular findings that are in line with previous reported results CITATION, TRH1 potassium transporter acts independently and autonomously from the developmental pathway that controls root-hair initiation (CITATIONC). Previously reported results indicated that the developmental pathway, which through the TTG/GL2 interplay determines root epidermal cell fate, converges with the environmental/hormonal pathway downstream of RHD6 CITATION. As auxin restores the rhd6 root-hair phenotype CITATION, TRH1, a modulator of auxin homeostasis in Arabidopsis root apex, positively regulates root-hair elongation independently of RHD6 CITATION. The results strongly suggest that the developmental pathway determining cell fate and differentiation of Arabidopsis root epidermal cells acts upstream of TRH1. Subsequently, TRH1 acts, independently of epidermal cell fate determination, downstream of root-hair initiation as a positive forward modulator most likely integrating external environmental cues into canonical hormonal signals. Members of the KUP/HAK/KT K+ transporter and the Shaker K+ channel family are the major players in K+ uptake even when K+ availability in soil is scarce. Arabidopsis voltage-gated K+ subunits of the Shaker channels are categorized into two major groups in terms of functional properties: the inward-rectifying channels typically represented by AKT1, the outward-rectifying channels including GORK and SKOR, and the conditionally targeted AtKC1 regulatory subunit CITATION. Nonselective heteromeric assembly between the nine different α-subunits of Shaker K+ channels occurs providing the molecular basis for the functional diversity observed in vivo CITATION. Heteromerization depends on the expression level of genes encoding for α-subunits and their temporal stoichiometric protein abundance. As physical interactions between KUP/HAK/KT subunits have not been reported as yet, the BiFC technology was applied to validate protein interactions between TRH1 subunits. The full-length coding sequence of TRH1 was cloned in frame with the 5′ end of the coding sequence of the two split-YFP fragments (YFPN and YFPC) to generate the TRH1-YFP N and TRH1-YFP C. As positive control, bZIP63-YFP N and bZIP63-YFP C constructs were used (CITATIONA). Transient co-expression of TRH1-YFP N and TRH1-YFP C results in fluorescence emission (CITATIONB). The signal is reminiscent of the previously reported pattern of TRH1 localization in intracellular membrane structures CITATION. These results show that TRH1 subunits can physically self-interact to form a multimeric complex in vivo and additionally to Shaker K+ channels, the subunits of KUP/HAK/KT K+ transporters can be assembled. The assembly of different subunits in plant Shaker K+ channels is achieved through hydrophilic domains CITATION. As a member of the KUP/HAK/KT K+ transporter family, TRH1 consists of 14 predicted hydrophobic transmembrane domains CITATION. Before assessing the TRH1 regions for their capacity to interact in the yeast two-hybrid system, the architecture of TRH1 protein was determined to identify intracytoplasmic regions that could be involved in the assembly process. Molecular modeling provides insights into the structural features of TRH1 K+ transporter due to lack of crystallographic data (CITATION ). This analysis confirms the 14 transmembrane domains and shows that TRH1 monomer contains 775 amino acids with a tiny hydrophilic N-terminus of seven residues together with two long hydrophilic segments. The segment at the C-terminus downstream the last predicted transmembrane domain is hydrophilic and consists of 211 residues. An additional internal hydrophilic segment composed of 73 residues, intermediates the second and the third predicted transmembrane span toward the N-terminus. To assess the interactions between the various cytoplasmic domains present in the two hydrophilic segments of the protein, the hydrophilic segment at the C-terminus is divided into three regions: 1C (R565–L775) consists of 211 residues and covers the entire C-terminal domain, 2C (R565–A729) bears a deletion of the distal C-terminal part, and 3C (R673–L775) comprises the extreme C-terminus (CITATION A). The 2C and 3C regions are constituted of 165 and 103 residues, respectively, and they are overlapping onto 56 residues. Likewise, the internal hydrophilic domain is divided into two regions hereafter called L and H (CITATIONA). The L region (K69–T141) consisting of 73 residues, covers the entire internal hydrophilic segment between the second and the third transmembrane span, whereas the H region (Q105–T141) being 37 residues in length represents the most hydrophilic part between the two successive transmembrane domains. Even though the reporter yeast strain is reciprocally transformed with all combinations of constructs carrying the GAL4 domain with the TRH1 regions, significant interactions are solely detected between the 2C/2C and H/H regions. The strength of the strong 2C self-interaction is confirmed by the β-galactosidase assay in AH109 yeast genotype (CITATIONB). Moreover, the 2C interaction is similar to the positive control of the analysis indicating that this region is responsible for a stable contact between TRH1 subunits. By contrast, the nature of the H region self-association is relatively weak compared to the 2C region (CITATIONB) and it is therefore beyond the detection limit of the β-galactosidase assay. Intriguingly, the importance of the carboxy terminal domain for the functional competence of the TRH1 transporter complex was previously shown when the truncated polypeptide missing this part of the protein failed to complement the yeast M398 mutant strain deficient for K+ uptake CITATION, most likely showing that this region is an essential parameter for TRH1. In Shaker subunits, the interacting regions are highly conserved in all known plant potassium channels permitting the nonselective heteromerization of different α-subunits CITATION. Each of the four Shaker α-subunits that are assembled to form the tetrameric functional channel consists of six transmembrane domains CITATION. On the basis of TRH1 architecture and assembly properties, it is tempting to speculate that KUP/HAK/KT potassium transporters could fold as a dimer. Such a dimerization model stoichiometrically results in a complex of 24 transmembrane domains simulating the tetramerization assembly process of Shaker monomers. This mode of physical contact is most likely attributed to self-interaction of the hydrophilic C-terminus of TRH1 (region 2C) and the hydrophilic loop between the second and the third transmembrane region (region H) toward the N-terminus. These two polypeptide segments are highly variable within the members of the KUP/HAK/KT potassium transporter family (Fig. S3). The C-terminus of TRH1 represented by 1C that in addition to the 2C region encompasses the 3C region did not interact, albeit 3C showed a weak mode of self-interaction (CITATIONB). The weak capacity of 3C to interact is potentially attributed to the region extending from amino acids R673 to A729 from 2C (CITATIONA). Taking together these results, the 3C region representing the distal end of 1C seems to counteract the physical contact between the C-terminus of TRH1 subunits driven by the 2C association properties. The 3C-dependent incapability of 1C to self-interact most likely consists of an elegant regulatory mechanism to discriminate the heteromerization among the protein isoforms of the KUP/HAK/KT potassium transporter family. In agreement with this notion, the most distal end of 3C and thereby of TRH1 C-terminus is relatively hydrophobic CITATION and highly conserved within the KUP/HAK/KT family (Figs. S3 and S4). Likewise, the hydrophobic L region containing highly similar amino acid residues (Figs. S3 and S4) among the KUP/HAK/KT potassium transporters counteracts the interactions either with itself or with the H region to likely prevent protein heteromerization. Hence, unlike the Shaker K+ channel α-subunits that assemble indiscriminately, the molecular interactions between TRH1 monomers are selective leading most likely to homodimer formation. Considering the biological significance of these findings, a two-point check potentially exists to ensure the self-interaction of TRH1 subunits. The part of 3C region that particularly extends from A729 to the C-terminus of TRH1 and the part of the L region between residues K69 and Q105 mainly modulate the clustering of TRH1 subunits in membrane compartments. Consequently, the hydrophobic nature of the 3C and the N-terminal end of the L segments, driving the incorporation into the membrane could mask any hindering of self-interaction, allowing only the highly variable in amino acid sequence regions to self-associate. This architecture allows the TRH1 monomers to co-assemble tightly through two spatially separated regions encompassing residues Q105–T141 and R565–A729. Nevertheless, the existence of β-subunits that may interact with TRH1 monomers cannot be excluded. Such β-subunits could play a substantial role in TRH1 dimerization, by modifying for example TRH1 α-subunits conformation so as to promote exposure of the protein association domains for proper folding. It has already been shown that Arabidopsis KAT1 channel α-subunits form a tight physical association with the KAB1 protein CITATION. Although KAB1 primary structure is substantially different from its animal counterparts, it may also function in plants as a β-subunit oxidoreductase for K+ voltage-gated channels, regulating the redox status of α-subunits.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana seeds were surface-sterilized and sown in 120×120mm2 Petri dishes containing 0.5× Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Duchefa, Haarlem, the Netherlands), pH 5.7, supplemented with 1% sucrose and solidified with 0.4% phytagel (Sigma, Gillingham, UK). After 48h of stratification at 4°C, seedlings were positioned to grow vertically for 2–6 days after germination at 22°C in a Fitotron (Weiss Gallenkamp, Loughborough, UK) growth chamber under a long photoperiod with 16h of light and 8h of darkness per day and 100μmolm−2 s−1 light intensity. Mutant seeds of ttg-1 (CS89), gl2-1 (CS65), cpc (CS6399), rhd3 (CS2260), ctr1 (CS16425), and rhd6 (CS6347) were obtained from the NASC (Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre). Double mutants were obtained by crossing single mutant plants and examining F2 progeny for putative double mutant phenotypes at the seedling stage. Total RNA was isolated as described previously CITATION. Reverse transcription of TRH1 and APT1 gene was performed by gene-specific primer 5′-CTTCACCATTGTCATCTGCACTTAAC-3′ and 5′-CCTTTCCCTTAAGCTCTG-3′, respectively. The oligonucleotides used for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis were as follows: TRH1-Forward, 5′-CCAAGCTACGCCGCATCTTACTCGC-3′, and TRH1-Reverse, 5′-CTTCACCATTGTCATCTGCACTTAAC-3′, corresponding to the 5′-untranslated region and the second exon of TRH1 gene, respectively; APT1-Forward, 5′- TCCCAGAATCGCTAAGATTGCC-3′, and APT1-Reverse, 5′-CCTTTCCCTTAAGCTCTG-3′, corresponding to APT1 gene. Using the forward primer 5′-TTCTAGACCACCATGGCTGATAGGAGAAACAGG-3′ and the reverse primer 5′-TGGATCCCAAGTAATAGTTCATGCCCAC-3′ TRH1 cDNA was amplified and cloned into pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega, Madison, USA). Subsequently, it was cloned into the pSPYNE and pSPYCE vectors to generate in-frame fusions with YFPN and YFPC, respectively CITATION. Transient expression of the fusion proteins was carried out in 4-week-old Nicotiana benthamiana plants as described previously CITATION. The plants were incubated under normal growth conditions and 3–4 days after infiltration mesophyll protoplasts were isolated as follows. Leafs were sliced in small pieces, placed in petri dishes and incubated in 0.5M mannitol solution for 1h. The mannitol solution was aspirated and enzymatic digestion was performed at 21°C overnight in the dark by adding 0.25% (w/v) Macerozyme R-10 (Duchefa, Haarlem, the Netherlands), 1% (w/v) Cellulase R-10 (Duchefa, Haarlem, the Netherlands), 8mM CaCl2 and 0.5M Mannitol. The protoplasts were collected carefully from the bottom of the plates. Specific BiFC protein–protein interactions were examined using epifluorescence microscopy. Images were taken with an Olympus DP71 camera, using Cell^A (Olympus Soft Imaging Solutions). Final merging of images was performed using Adobe Photoshop CS2 (version 9.01) software. Fragments 1C, 2C and 3C corresponding to TRH1 hydrophilic C-terminus were, respectively, amplified from the Arabidopsis H10G7 full length EST clone using the Expand High Fidelity PCR system (Roche, Mannheim, Germany) with the following primer pairs: 5′-TAGCCCGGATCCGGTACCTTATCGGCCGGATT-3′, 5′-TAGCCCGGATCCAAGTAATAGTTCATGCCCA-3′; 5′-TAGCCCGGATCCGGTACCTTATCGGCCGGATT-3′, 5′-TAGCCCGGATCCTTCACGTGACCGTGTCCGA-3′; 5′-TAGCCCGGATCCGAGCAGAGTATGAGCAAGA-3′, 5′-TAGCCCGGATCCAAGTAATAGTTCATGCCCA-3′. Fragments L and H corresponding to the internal relatively hydrophilic domain were generated with forward primers 5′-TAGCCCGGATCCTCAAGTACATGGT-3′ for L region, and 5′-GAATTCGGATCCAAGCTGCTGATGAAGA-3′ for H region with a common reverse primer 5′-AAGCTTGTCGACAGTTTTTGATCTTTTATTTCGTTCTAT-3′. The underlined nucleotide sequences denote the artificially introduced BamHI or SalI restriction sites to facilitate cloning. Resulting PCR products were initially cloned in the pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega, Madison, USA) and subsequently cloned in the BamHI or SalI restriction sites of the pAS2-1 and pACT2 vectors (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA) to generate in-frame fusions with the GAL4 DNA-binding (BD) or activating (AD) domain, respectively. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH109 reporter strain (Clontech) was co-transformed with the fused hybrid vectors (200ng each), using the lithium acetate method CITATION. Transformants were selected on solid drop-out medium lacking tryptophan and leucine (Trp−/Leu−). Resulting colonies were grown in Trp−/Leu− liquid medium until reaching the mid-logarithmic phase. Cultures were then adjusted to equal optical density (OD600 =0.5), and 5-fold dilution series were plated on Trp−/Leu−/His− solid medium. Yeast cells harboring plain pACT2 plasmid and the pLAM5′-1 vector (Clontech), which encodes a fusion of the human lamin C protein and the GAL4 DNA-BD, were used as a negative control (−). As a positive control (+) yeast cells harboring plasmids pVA3-1 and pTD1-1 (Clontech) encoding the interacting DNA-binding domain::murine 53 and activation domain::SV40 large T-antigen fusion proteins were used. The observed positive interactions were confirmed by the β-galactosidase (LacZ) colony-lift filter assay (Matchmaker Yeast Protocols Handbook, Clontech). Multiple sequence alignment of Arabidopsis thaliana KT/KUP/HAK protein homologues was performed using the ClustalX 1.83 software (http://bips.u-strasbg.fr/en/Products/Software). Protein structure prediction of TRH1 was generated by the Phyre2 application (http://www.sbg.bio.ic.ac.uk/phyre2) using the ‘intensive’ modeling mode. The resulting PDB file was analyzed by PyMOL (http://www.pymol.org). In line to the molecular model, the secondary structure of TRH1 was determined by TMpred software provided by EMBnet-Server (www.ch.embnet.org/software/TMPRED_form.html).
