!~ABS~! Stomatal movements are regulated by multiple environmental signals. Recent investigations indicate that photoperiodic flowering components, such as CRY, GI, CO, FT and TSF, are expressed in guard cells and positively affect stomatal opening in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here we show that SOC1, which encodes a MADS box transcription factor and integrates multiple flowering signals, also exerts a positive effect on stomatal opening. FLC encodes a potent repressor of FT and SOC1, and FRI acts as an activator of FLC. Thus, we examined stomatal phenotypes in FRI-Col, which contains an active FRI allele of accession Sf-2 by introgression. We found higher expression of FLC and lower expression of FT, SOC1 and TSF in guard cells from FRI-Col than in those from Col. Light-induced stomatal opening was significantly suppressed in FRI-Col. Interestingly, vernalization of FRI-Col partially restored light-induced stomatal opening, concomitant with a decrease of FLC and increase of FT, SOC1 and TSF. Furthermore, we observed the constitutive open-stomata phenotype in transgenic plants overexpressing SOC1-GFP (green fluorescent protein) in guard cells (SOC1-GFP overexpressor), and found that light-induced stomatal opening was significantly suppressed in a soc1 knockout mutant. RNA sequencing using epidermis from the SOC1-GFP overexpressor revealed that the expression levels of several genes involved in stomatal opening, such as BLUS1 and the plasma membrane H+-ATPases, were higher than those in background plants. From these results, we conclude that SOC1 is involved in the regulation of stomatal opening via transcriptional regulation in guard cells.
!~RES~! FRI elevates expression level of FLC, which represses flowering. Plants with an active FRI allele showed reduced expression of the major flowering components, such as FT and SOC1, without vernalization or late flowering phenotype (CITATION). In addition, it has been reported that FT affects stomatal opening positively in A. thaliana (CITATION). These results suggest that if FRI also elevates the expression level of FLC and reduces the expression level of FT via FLC in stomatal guard cells, the plants with an active FRI allele would show a closed-stomata phenotype. Therefore, we examined expression levels of FLC, FT, TSF and SOC1 in Col and FRI-Col GCPs by reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) (Fig. 1A). We observed higher expression of FLC in FRI-Col. In contrast, expression levels of FT, TSF and SOC1 in GCPs of FRI-Col were lower than those of Col. These results indicate that FRI affects the expression of these components in guard cells as well as leaves, and suggest that light-induced stomatal opening would be reduced in FRI-Col since positive regulators of stomatal opening, FT and TSF (CITATION, CITATION), were reduced in GCPs of FRI-Col. Next, we investigated light-induced stomatal opening in Col and FRI-Col (Fig. 1B). As expected, light-induced stomatal opening was significantly suppressed in FRI-Col. However, the stomata in these mutants opened in response to the fungal toxin fusicoccin (FC) (Fig. 1C), which induces stomatal opening via irreversible activation of H+-ATPase (CITATION). Moreover, FRI-Col showed similar stomatal density and index compared with those in Col (Fig. 1D). These results suggest that FRI-Col exhibits reduced light-induced stomatal opening without affecting stomatal morphology and development, and that the H+-ATPase and its immediate regulatory mechanisms are not affected in FRI-Col.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Enhancement of FLC expression by FRI is canceled by vernalization in leaves (CITATION). Therefore, we carried out vernalization of Col and FRI-Col, and then examined the expression level of FLC, FT and SOC1 in the epidermis, including guard cells (Fig. 2A). Vernalization (4°C for 2 weeks) reduced FLC expression and increased FT and SOC1 expression. Next, we examined light-induced stomatal opening (Fig. 2B). In Col plants, vernalization had no effect on stomatal phenotype. Interestingly, light-induced stomatal opening was significantly enhanced in vernalized FRI-Col. These results suggest that both FT and SOC1 in guard cells are correlated with stomatal aperture.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Note that expression levels of FT and SOC1 in vernalized FRI-Col were lower than those in vernalized Col (Fig. 2A). Consistent with this, the stomatal aperture under light condition in vernalized FRI-Col was smaller than that in vernalized Col (Fig. 2B). These results indicate that vernalization (4°C for 2 weeks) is not sufficient for reduction of FLC expression in FRI-Col. In fact, the expression level of FLC in FRI-Col was reduced only 29% by vernalization (Fig. 2A). Further investigation will be needed to examine the effects of vernalization period on the expression levels of FLC, FT and SOC1 and light-induced stomatal aperture in FRI-Col. Figs. 1 and 2 indicate a correlation between expression levels and stomatal opening in both FT and SOC1. However, there is no experimental evidence to show regulation of stomatal movement by SOC1. Therefore, we generated SOC1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic plants with the GC1 promoter, a strong guard cell promoter (CITATION, CITATION), to express SOC1 specifically in guard cells. We used a phot1 phot2 double mutant as the background plant. Since the light-induced stomatal opening in phot1 phot2 is very small (CITATION), it is easy to monitor the effect of a transgene on stomatal aperture. As shown in Fig. 3A, the expression level of epidermal SOC1 including the endogenous SOC1 and SOC1-GFP in pGC1::SOC1-GFP plants was 2.5- to 2.8-fold higher than the endogenous SOC1 of the background plants. SOC1-GFP signals were observed mainly from nuclei, stained by the nuclear marker 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), and secondarily from the cytosol in guard cells (Fig. 3B). We then analyzed the stomatal responses of SOC1-GFP-overexpressing plants. The stomata of phot1 phot2 plants did not show light-induced stomatal opening, as this mutant lacked functional phototropins (CITATION). Interestingly, the stomata of SOC1-GFP-overexpressing plants opened widely in both dark and light conditions (Fig. 3C), as seen in FT- and TSF-overexpressing plants (CITATION, CITATION). To examine how SOC1 overexpression induces stomatal opening, we tested the effects of ABA and the type 1/type 2A protein phosphatase inhibitor calyculin A (CA; CITATION), which inhibit blue light-dependent activation of H+-ATPase in guard cells (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION) on stomatal aperture, and found that ABA and CA induced stomatal closure in SOC1-GFP-overexpressing plants (Fig. 3D). These results suggest that SOC1 may affect stomatal aperture, at least in part, by affecting the H+-ATPase activity in guard cells.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Next, we examined stomatal phenotypes in a T-DNA insertional mutant of SOC1 (GABI_466F09) (Fig. 4A). As shown in Fig. 4B, there was no detectable SOC1 transcript, indicating that this mutant is a knockout mutant of SOC1. Therefore, we designated it as soc1-10 (Fig. 4A, B). Light-induced stomatal opening was significantly suppressed in the soc1-10 mutant, and in the loss-of-function mutant of FT, ft-2 (CITATION) (Fig. 4C). However, the stomata of these mutants opened in response to an activator of H+-ATPase, FC (Fig. 4D). Moreover, the soc1-10 mutant showed similar stomatal density and index compared with Col (Fig. 4E). These results suggest that the soc1-10 mutant shows reduced light-induced stomatal opening without affecting morphology and stomatal development, and that the H+-ATPase and its immediate regulatory mechanisms are not affected in the soc1-10 mutant.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] SOC1 encodes the MADS domain transcription factor (CITATION, CITATION), and microarray and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-seq analyses show that SOC1 regulates gene expression in seedlings (CITATION, CITATION). Additionally, SOC1–GFP was expressed primarily in the nuclei of guard cells (Fig. 3B). Together, these results suggest that SOC1 in guard cells also affects gene expression. To identify the genes controlled by SOC1 in guard cells, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) experiments using RNAs from the epidermis, including guard cells of SOC1-GFP-overexpressing (pGC1::SOC1-GFP/phot1 phot2) and phot1 phot2 plants. We found that read numbers of numerous genes are increased in SOC1-GFP-overexpressing plants. Supplementary Table S1 lists the top 20 genes, in which the read numbers are increased in SOC1-GFP-overexpressing plants based on fold change. However, to our knowledge, no gene has been conclusively implicated in stomatal opening and closing. Therefore, we focused on the genes involved in blue-light-induced stomatal opening, such as BLUS1, a primary component mediating phototropin signaling (CITATION); catalytic subunits of PP1 (TOPP1–TOPP8), a positive signaling component between phototropins and plasma membrane H+-ATPase (CITATION); regulatory subunits of PP1 (PRSL1), a positive signaling component with TOPPs (CITATION); plasma membrane H+-ATPases (AHA1–AHA11), which induce hyperpolarization of the plasma membrane for K+ uptake (CITATION, CITATION); and inward-rectifying K+ channels (KAT1, KAT2 and AKT1), which take up K+ in response to hyperpolarization (CITATION, CITATION) (Table 1). Interestingly, the read numbers of BLUS1, some H+-ATPase isoforms (AHA1, AHA2, AHA3, AHA5, AHA6, AHA10 and AHA11) and KAT2 were higher in SOC1-GFP-overexpressing plants. Furthermore, we confirmed an increase in the expression levels of SOC1 including the endogenous SOC1 and SOC1-GFP, BLUS1 as a direct downstream component of phototropins (Takemiya et al. 2013), and AHA2 as a typical guard-cell H+-ATPase isoform in Arabidopsis (CITATION) in SOC1-GFP-overexpressing plants by RT–PCR (Fig. 5; Supplementary Fig. S1C). In contrast, the read numbers of KAT1 and AKT1 were lower in SOC1-GFP-overexpressing plants. The read numbers of TOPP genes and PRSL1 were similar between SOC1-GFP-overexpressing and phot1 phot2 plants. These results indicate that actually SOC1 regulates gene expression in stomatal guard cells including the genes involved in blue-light-induced stomatal opening.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! FRI-Col was the Col genetic background into which an active FRI allele of accession Sf-2 was introgressed (CITATION). phot1-5 phot2-1 (phot1 phot2; CITATION) was the gl1 background. We obtained a SOC1 knockout mutant, soc1-10 (GABI_466F09), from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. Homozygous soc1-10 mutant plants were identified by genomic PCR using the T-DNA left border primer, 5′-ATATTGACCATCATACTCATTGC-3′, and the SOC1 gene-specific primers 5′-TTTGAGAACACCATTGGGATC-3′ and 5′-CCAAAAAGAACCCCAACTTTC-3′. Col is the background ecotype of soc1-10 and ft-2 (introgressed; CITATION). Seeds were incubated in water at 4°C for 3 d and sown directly on the soil surface. Plants were grown in soil under a 16 h white light (50 µmol m−2 s−1)/8 h dark cycle at 22–24°C in 50–70% relative humidity in a growth room. For vernalization, 2-week-old plants grown under the conditions above were transferred to a cold room under a 16 h white light (40 µmol m−2 s−1)/8 h dark cycle at 4°C for 2 weeks. Then, the plants were returned to baseline conditions for 14–20 d. Finally, the plants were used for measuring stomatal aperture and determining gene expression. GCPs were prepared enzymatically from 4- to 6-week-old plants as described previously (CITATION). Epidermal fragments that included stomatal guard cells were isolated from mature rosette leaves of 4- to 6-week-old plants using a blender equipped with an MC1 mini container (Waring Commercial) (CITATION). Mature rosette leaves (0.1–0.2 g) were blended for approximately 20 s in 35 ml of ice-cold Milli-Q water (Millipore). The epidermal fragments were collected on 58 µm nylon mesh and frozen in a tube with liquid nitrogen, isolated at Zeitgeber time (ZT) 12, because FT shows a high expression level around ZT12 (CITATION). Total RNAs were extracted from GCPs and epidermal fragments with an RNeasy Plant Mini Kit (Qiagen) and on-column DNase treatment using the RNase-Free DNase Set (Qiagen), and first-strand cDNAs were synthesized using the PrimeScript II First-Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (TAKARA) following the manufacturer’s instructions. In Fig. 1A, 30 cycles of PCR were performed for FLC, SOC1 and TUB2, and 35 cycles for FT and TSF. In Fig. 2A, 25 cycles of PCR were performed for FLC, 30 cycles for SOC1 and TUB2, and 35 cycles for FT. In Fig. 3A, 25 cycles of PCR were performed for TUB2, 30 cycles for SOC1 and 35 cycles for SOC1-GFP. In Fig. 4B, 30 cycles of PCR were performed for all genes. Primers are shown in Supplementary Table S2. Epidermal fragments were isolated from mature rosette leaves of 4- to 6-week-old plants as described previously (CITATION). Epidermal tissue isolated from dark-adapted plants was incubated in a basal buffer [5 mM MES-BTP (pH 6.5), 50 mM KCl and 0.1 mM CaCl2] and illuminated with blue light at 10 µmol m−2 s−1 superimposed on a background red light at 50 µmol m−2 s−1 for 3 h at room temperature. We started the experiment for stomatal aperture at ZT4. ABA (20 µM) and CA (0.5 µM) were added to the basal buffer under light exposure conditions, and 10 µM FC was added in the dark. ABA, CA and FC were dissolved in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). From 25 to 45 stomatal apertures (five stomata per epidermal fragment) in the abaxial epidermis were measured microscopically for each independent experiment. Light-emitting photodiodes (ISL-150X150-RB and ISC-201-2 power supply; CCS) served as red and blue light sources for the stomatal opening measurements. Photon flux densities were determined with a quantum meter (Li-250; Li-Cor). The plasmid vectors used for plant transformation were constructed according to a previous method (CITATION). In brief, a genomic DNA fragment spanning 1,702 to 1 bp upstream of the start codon of GC1 (At1g22690), flanked by HindIII and XbaI sites, was used to replace the corresponding region of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter in pPZP211 (pPZP211-GC1). Before HindIII digestion, a single-nucleotide substitution (1,453 C to G) was introduced into the GC1 fragment by site-directed mutagenesis. A cDNA fragment of SOC1 (At2g45660) was amplified with the following oligonucleotide primers: 5′-GCCTCTAGAGATATGGTGAGGGGCAAAACTC-3′ and 5′-GCCTCTAGATCACTTTCTTGAAGAACAAGGTAACCC-3′. The amplified DNA fragment was inserted into pPZP211-GC1 using XbaI. The stop codon of the SOC1 coding sequence in pPZP211-GC1::SOC1 was replaced with a gene encoding synthetic GFP with an S65T mutation (pPZP211-GC1::SOC1-GFP). All of the plant transformation plasmid vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens (GV3101), which was then transferred into plants using a standard method. F3 homozygous plants were used for the experiments. To localize the SOC1–GFP fusion protein, pGC1::SOC1-GFP/phot1 phot2 plants were grown on Murashige and Skoog plates with 1% sucrose for 2 weeks. Epidermal fragments of rosette leaves were isolated as described above. Isolated epidermal fragments were incubated in phosphate-buffered saline (137 mM NaCl, 8.1 mM Na2HPO4, 2.68 mM KCl, 1.47 mM KH2PO4) containing 1 µM DAPI (Dojindo) for 10 min at 37°C. After incubation, epidermal fragments were collected on 58 µm nylon mesh, washed with Milli-Q water and mounted with 50% (v/v) glycerol. Specimens were observed under a fluorescence microscope (BX50; Olympus) with the following filter sets: BP460–480HQ BA495–540HQ (U-MGFPHQ; Olympus) for GFP; BP330–385 BA420 (U-MWU2; Olympus) for DAPI; and BP530–550 BA575IF (U-MWIG3; Olympus) for Chl fluorescence, respectively. An Hg arc lamp was used as a source of excitation light. Fluorescent images were collected using a CCD camera system (DP72; Olympus) and processed using DP2-BSW software (Olympus). Epidermal fragments that included stomatal guard cells were isolated from mature rosette leaves of 4- to 5-week-old plants using a blender equipped with an MC2 mini container (Waring Commercial). Mature rosette leaves (1.5–2.8 g) were blended for approximately 40 s in 60 ml of ice-cold Milli-Q water. The epidermal fragments were collected on 58 µm nylon mesh and frozen in a tube with liquid nitrogen. To examine the expression profiles when the stomatal aperture is measured, the epidermal fragments were isolated at ZT4. Total RNA was prepared using a NucleoSpin RNA Plant kit (TAKARA). From a 4 µg aliquot of total RNA, poly(A)-containing RNA was enriched by a Dynabeads mRNA DIRECT Micro Purification Kit (Life Technologies). mRNA was then used to generate an RNA sequencing library using an Ion Total RNA-Seq Kit v2 (Life Technologies). The libraries were analyzed by Ion PGM with Ion 318 ChIP (Life Technologies). Basecalling of sequence reads and mapping to the Arabidopsis transcripts (TAIR10) were performed by Torrent Suite (Life Technologies). Mapping files in bam format were converted to bed format using the R bioconductor package GenomicAlignments (CITATION) (R Development Core Team). The bed format files were used to count sequence reads mapped to each transcript (TAIR10) with the R bioconductor package ShortRead (CITATION). We obtained from 2.7 to 5.1 million sequence reads per experiment. The actual read counts were normalized into reads per million (RPM). The experiments were repeated three times on three separate occasions.
