!~ABS~! Ribosome biogenesis is an essential process in all organisms. In eukaryotes, multiple ribosome biogenesis factors (RBFs) act in the processing of ribosomal (r)RNAs, assembly of ribosomal subunits and their export to the cytoplasm. We characterized two genes in Arabidopsis thaliana coding for orthologs of yeast BRX1, a protein involved in maturation of the large ribosomal subunit. Both atBRX1 proteins, encoded by AT3G15460 and AT1G52930, respectively, are mainly localized in the nucleolus and are ubiquitously expressed throughout plant development and in various tissues. Mutant plant lines for both factors show a delay in development and pointed leaves can be observed in the brx1-2 mutant, implying a link between ribosome biogenesis and plant development. In addition, the pre-rRNA processing is affected in both mutants. Analysis of the pre-rRNA intermediates revealed that early processing steps can occur either in the 5′ external transcribed spacer (ETS) or internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1). Interestingly, we also find that in xrn2 mutants, early processing events can be bypassed and removal of the 5′ ETS is initiated by cleavage at the P′ processing site. While the pathways of pre-rRNA processing are comparable to those of yeast and mammalian cells, the balance between the two processing pathways is different in plants. Furthermore, plant-specific steps such as an additional processing site in the 5′ ETS, likely post-transcriptional processing of the early cleavage sites and accumulation of a 5′ extended 5.8S rRNA not observed in other eukaryotes can be detected. 
!~RES~! Two orthologs of yeast Brx1 have been identified in A. thaliana (atBRX1-1, AT3G15460; atBRX1-2, AT1G52930). They share 41% and 40% sequence similarity with their yeast ortholog, respectively, and are themselves 86% similar in sequence. Both show the same architecture to the yeast protein but additionally possess a charged extension at the aminoterminus (Fig. 1A). This prompted us to investigate whether they are expressed in a tissue-specific manner. We isolated RNA from wild-type A. thaliana plants at different developmental stages and from different organs and analyzed the abundance of mRNAs coding for both orthologs by qRT-PCR (Fig. 1B; CITATION; CITATION). The abundance of the BRX1-1 mRNA was comparable in most tissues and only in roots and flowers of old plants, tissues with a higher demand for newly synthesized ribosomes, expression of the BRX1-2 mRNA appears to be enhanced (Fig. 1B). However, by statistical analysis this increase was not found to be significant.  [[FIGURE]] Furthermore, we analyzed the presence of both atBRX1 proteins at different developmental stages and in different organs by Western blotting using an antibody generated against a mixture of full-length atBRX1-1 and atBRX1-2 (Fig. 1C). As a control, we analyzed the abundance of atRPL5 (Fig. 1C) using a specific antibody generated against full-length atRPL5. We found that both atBRX1 proteins are expressed in all analyzed tissues, but comparison to atRPL5 revealed a decline of atBRX1 abundance after day 18 in nonreproductive tissues like rosette, stem, and hypsophyll (Fig. 1C). Thus, the protein abundance in different tissues likely reflects the demand for ribosome biogenesis, as it is high in young developing tissues and reduced in leaves, stem, hypsophyll, and seeds, which are tissues with reduced rate of cell division. Interestingly, inspection of the coexpression analysis using String 9.1 (CITATION) shows that both BRX1 genes are coexpressed with genes that are orthologs of yeast RBFs (Table 1). Like Brx1, all these orthologs are involved in the maturation of 90S and 60S preribosomal complexes and at least Rpf2 and Has1 have also been found in the yeast complexes isolated by TAP-tagged Rrp1 (CITATION).  [[TABLE]] Next, the subcellular localization of both atBRX1 proteins was analyzed. carboxyterminally GFP tagged atBRX1-1 and atBRX1-2 proteins were transiently overexpressed in protoplasts under the control of the 35S promoter (Fig. 2A). Full-length fusion protein expression was confirmed by Western blotting using an anti-GFP antibody (Fig. 2A). atBRX1-1-GFP shows one band of the expected size, while atBRX1-2-GFP shows a double band suggesting that the protein expressed from this construct is partially unstable (Fig. 2A). Both proteins are mainly localized to the nucleolus as judged from the overlay of the GFP signal of atBRX1-GFP proteins and the fluorescence of Fibrillarin-mCherry as a nucleolar marker (Fig. 2A). These results are consistent with the nucleolar localization of yeast and mammalian BRX1 (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] The interaction of both atBRX1 proteins with ribosomes was studied using sucrose density gradient centrifugation (Fig. 2B). With the conditions used here, polysomes and 80S ribosomes were unstable, but distinct peaks corresponding to fractions containing mature and pre-rRNAs, ribosomal proteins, and the RBF eIF6-2 clearly demonstrated the separation of the (pre-)40S and (pre-)60S particles (Fig. 2B). Interestingly, both atBRX1 proteins comigrate in the fractions corresponding to pre-60S complexes (Fig. 2B) suggesting that they are both involved in ribosome biogenesis.  We selected one SALK and one GABI-KAT transfer DNA (T-DNA) insertion line for BRX1-1 and BRX1-2, respectively (Fig. 3A), to further investigate the functions of both proteins in vivo. Screening PCRs on genomic DNA and sequencing analysis (CITATION) revealed a single back-to-back T-DNA insertion in both lines, brx1-1 and brx1-2 (Fig. 3A,B). In addition, brx1-1 and brx1-2 are homozygous lines as the wild-type allele was no longer detectable (Fig. 3B, lanes 6 and 12, respectively). As expected, we detected a transcript upstream of the T-DNA insertion for both lines (Fig. 3C, first row of panels), but a full-length transcript was not detected in either plant line (Fig. 3C, third row of panels). However, in brx1-2 a transcript downstream from the insertion exists as well (Fig. 3C, lane 4, panel 2), likely caused by the 35S promoter in the T-DNA close to the left border. Most important, the homozygosis of both lines was confirmed by Western blot using the atBRX1 antibody on protein extracts from wild-type and mutant flowers (Fig. 3D). The corresponding full-length protein was not detected in brx1-1 and brx1-2, confirming that these lines are suitable to analyze the consequence of an absence of atBRX1-1 and atBRX1-2 in vivo. Nevertheless, atBRX1-1 accumulates slightly in the brx1-2 mutant (Fig. 3D) possibly to compensate for the loss of atBRX1-2. This suggests that both atBRX1 orthologs are redundant.  [[FIGURE]] Next, we analyzed the phenotype of the two mutant lines. We observed a growth delay in both lines (Fig. 3E, inset) and an overall slower growth rate of brx1-2 (Fig. 3E). Furthermore, development of the first rosette leaves was impaired in both lines (Fig. 3F), but was also more pronounced for brx1-2 (Fig. 3F). Interestingly, brx1-2 showed a slight pointed leaf phenotype (Fig. 3G) that has previously been observed in ribosomal proteins mutants (CITATION; CITATION). Development of all following rosette leaves as well as flowering was also more delayed in brx1-2 than in brx1-1. However, crossing of both mutants did not lead to a double homozygous mutant (not shown), supporting that the atBRX1 orthologs are redundant.  To gain insight into whether the atBRX1 proteins are required for rRNA processing, we isolated total RNA from wild-type, brx1-1 and brx1-2 seedlings, resolved it on high-resolution agarose–glyoxal (Fig. 4B) or polyacrylamide gels (Fig. 4E) and detected pre-rRNAs by Northern blotting using a variety of probes hybridizing to different regions of the pre-rRNA transcripts (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Importantly, probes annealing between each of the known/proposed cleavage sites in the pre-rRNA were used enabling each of the intermediate detected to be defined (Fig. 4A).  [[FIGURE]] With all probes shown in Figure 4A, the 35S pre-rRNA, extending from site P in the 5′ ETS and extending into the 3′ ETS, can be detected (Fig. 4B,D). A pre-rRNA (33S[P′]) can be detected with probes p2 (annealing between P′ and the mature 5′ end of 18S rRNA), p3, p42, p43, p4, and p5 (ITS2) but not with p22 (annealing between P1 and P′) or p6 (3′ ETS) (Fig. 4B,D). The 5′ end of 33S(P′) is therefore generated by cleavage at site P′ and this precursor lacks the 3′ ETS. Although this intermediate has been observed previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION), the processing steps/cleavage sites by which it is generated have remained unclear until now. Furthermore, p3, p42, p43, and p5 recognize the recently described 32S pre-rRNA (CITATION) that comigrates with 33S(P′) under these conditions (Fig. 4B,D). We also observed the 27SA pre-rRNA with probes p42, p43 (between A2 and A3), and p5 (Fig. 4B,D). Interestingly, the 5′ end of this intermediate was previously thought to be generated by A3 cleavage; however, our data show that 27SA pre-rRNAs extending to A2 (27SA2) can also be detected (see p42 and p43). In addition, the 27SB pre-rRNA was observed to accumulate significantly. This is also the case in yeast where it is proposed that downstream preribosomal remodeling steps are rate-limiting for pre-rRNA processing (CITATION). Furthermore, multiple 5′ extended precursors of the 18S rRNA, named P–A3, P′–A3 and 18S-A3, can be detected with probes p23, p22, p2, p3, p42, and p43 (Fig. 4B,D). The 3′ ends of all of these pre-rRNAs are extended to site A3 because they are recognized by p43, which anneals immediately upstream of site A3. Interestingly, the 20S precursor of the 18S rRNA that extends from the 5′ end of 18S to the A2 cleavage site and is highly abundant in yeast, is not observed in A. thaliana wild-type seedlings. On the polyacrylamide gel, the conserved 3′ extended 5.8S precursors 7S and 6S can be seen with probe p5 (Fig. 4E). In addition, a 5′ extended 5.8S pre-rRNA containing the mature 3′ end of 5.8S can be detected with p4.  All pre-rRNA intermediates described above were also detected in both brx1 mutants (Fig. 4B,E). The level of the 35S pre-rRNA was unaltered in the mutants and was therefore used to determine the relative accumulations of other pre-rRNA species in the different lines (Fig. 4C). In both mutants, the 33S(P′), 32S, and 27SA2 pre-rRNAs accumulated ∼2.5-fold compared with wild type, while the levels of P–A3 were reduced by half (Fig. 4B,C). Consistent with this, the ratio between P–A3 and 32S was five times lower than the ratio determined in wild type (Fig. 4C). The ratio between 27SA2 and 32S was unaltered in the mutants (Fig. 4C). Interestingly, the 20S pre-rRNA becomes visible in both brx1 mutants, although at low levels (Fig. 4B). These results show that only a subset of the pre-rRNA intermediates are affected by mutation of BRX1 and support a function of both atBRX1 proteins in pre-60S subunit maturation in A. thaliana.  The new insights into the cleavages in both the 5′ ETS and ITS1 that are used to generate pre-rRNA intermediates found in wild-type plants imply that rRNA maturation could be more complex than previously thought. To gain further information about these pathways we also examined plant lines lacking the exonuclease atXRN2 that have previously been shown to exhibit severe pre-rRNA processing defects (CITATION). atXRN2 is one of the three homologs for yeast nuclear 5′→3′ exonuclease Rat1/Xrn2. In yeast, this protein is involved in the maturation of 5.8S and 25S rRNAs (CITATION; CITATION), in RNA decay (CITATION), as well as in transcription termination (CITATION; CITATION). Mammalian XRN2 has been shown to be required for pre-rRNA processing at site 01/A′ (CITATION; CITATION). xrn2 mutant plants do not show any visible phenotype, but accumulate 5′ extended rRNA precursors that have not been efficiently processed at site P (Fig. 5; CITATION). Furthermore, in xrn2 mutant plants, P1 processing also appears to be impaired, because 5′ ETS degradation intermediates extending between site P and P′ accumulate in the mutant (CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] By Northern blot analysis, we observed a 5′ ETS extended 35S and P–A3 pre-rRNAs in the xrn2 mutant (35S*, 5′ ETS–A3) (Fig. 5), supporting the conclusion that atXRN2 is required for P-site cleavage and removal of an Arabidopsis-specific insertion in the 5′ ETS (CITATION). Interestingly, the 33S(P′) and P′–A3 pre-rRNAs accumulated to normal levels in the xrn2 mutant (Fig. 5), suggesting that P-site cleavage can be bypassed and downstream processing steps can occur normally leading to normal levels of the mature rRNAs. It is not clear whether cleavage of site P1 is a prerequisite for P′ processing as pre-rRNA intermediates specifically generated by this cleavage are not detectable, however, comparison to mammalian 5′ ETS processing might suggest that cleavage at P1 and P′ occur almost simultaneously as has been proposed for A0 and A1 (CITATION). This suggests that the mature 5′ end of the 18S rRNA can be generated even if early 5′ ETS processing is impaired. 
!~MM~! For protein localization analysis, the coding sequences of atBRX1-1 and atBRX1-2 were amplified from cDNA and cloned into the pRTdS-vector (CITATION) to generate carboxy-terminal GFP fusions for expression in protoplasts. pRTdS-atFIB2-mCherry was used as a nucleolar marker (CITATION). A. thaliana leaf mesophyll protoplasts were isolated, transformed, and visualized as previously described (CITATION).  The coding sequences of atBRX1-1, atBRX1-2, atRPL5, and atRPS10 were amplified from cDNA and cloned into a modified pQE80 vector for amino-terminal fusion with a His21 tag. Proteins were expressed in BL21 star pRosetta cells for 4 h at 37°C with 0.25 mM IPTG. All proteins were purified using NiNTA (Qiagen) under denaturing conditions in a buffer containing 25 mM Tris pH 7.5, 300 mM NaCl, and 6 M guanidium hydrochloride. The denatured atBRX1 proteins were mixed in a 1:1 molar ratio and used for antibody generation in rabbits (Dr. Pineda, Berlin). atRPL5 and atRPS10 were used to immunize one rabbit each. For antibody purification, the buffer of the atBRX1 proteins was exchanged to 0.1 M NaHCO3, 0.5 M NaCl, and 8 M urea for coupling to CNBr Sepharose. The atBRX1 matrix was then prepared and the antibody was purified according to the manufacturer's protocol (GE Healthcare). For Western blotting, the atBRX1 antibody was used in a 1:5000 dilution. For atRPL5 and atRPS10, the serum was used directly for Western blotting at a 1:20,000 dilution.  Sucrose density gradients were performed as described (CITATION) because we observed inefficient release of nucleolar preribosomes using our standard procedure (CITATION; CITATION). Total cell lysate from A. thaliana cell culture was separated on a 10%–40% (w/v) sucrose gradient by centrifugation for 18 h at 100,000g in a TST41.14 rotor. Fractions were collected and analyzed as described previously (CITATION).  First strand cDNA from 1 µg of RNA was synthesized using M-MuLV reverse transcriptase (Thermo Scientific) according to the manufacturer's protocol. The relative expression of BRX1-1 and BRX1-2 mRNAs was quantified by qRT-PCR as previously described (CITATION).  For the analysis of the protein abundance of atBRX1-1 and atBRX1-2 in different developmental stages or different organs the tissue material was ground and directly resuspended in cracking buffer (5% (w/v) SDS, 6 M urea, 40 mM Tris–HCl pH 6.8, 0.1 mM EDTA, 0.4 mg/mL bromophenol blue, 147 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 1 mM PMSF). After incubation at 60°C for 10 min and centrifugation at 20,000g for 5 min the supernatant was quantified using amido black protein quantification. Equal amounts of protein were loaded onto SDS-PAGE and subjected to Western blotting using the atBRX1 antibody. Western blots of biological replicates were quantified using ImageJ.  The search for orthologs of scBrx1 was performed with In Paranoid (CITATION). T-DNA insertion lines for AT3G15460 (BRX1-1) and AT1G52930 (BRX1-2) were ordered from the Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC; brx1-1: SALK_004020, brx1-2: GABI_771C02). Plants were grown in climate chambers under long day conditions (14 h photoperiod with 120 µmol/m2/sec; 21°C at day and 18°C at night). Genomic DNA for screening PCRs was isolated as previously described (CITATION). T-DNA mapping was performed as previously described (CITATION). The T-DNA insertion mutants were further verified by reverse transcription (RT) PCR and Western blotting. For the latter, one flower was ground in 50 µL cracking buffer using an EPPI-pestle before addition of another 100 µL cracking buffer and incubation at 60°C for 10 min. After centrifugation at 20,000g for 5 min, the supernatant (total protein) was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. Growth-stage based phenotypic analysis was performed as described (CITATION).  Total RNA from 18-d-old seedlings or flowers was isolated as previously described (CITATION) with some modifications. Briefly, 100 mg of tissue was frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground to a fine powder. Three milliliters of Solution D (4 M guanidine thiocyanate, 25 mM sodium citrate pH 7.0, 147 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 0.5% (w/v) sodium lauroyl sarcosinate) and 300 µL of 2 M sodium acetate pH 4.0 were added and vigorously mixed. Three milliliters of acid saturated phenol (pH4.3, Sigma-Aldrich) and 600 µL chloroform were added, mixed, and incubated on ice for 15 min. After centrifugation, the aqueous phase was extracted once with phenol:chloroform:isoamylalcohol (25:24:1) and once with chloroform, before precipitation with one volume isopropanol. RNA was pelleted, further purified using the NucleoSpin RNA kit (Macherey-Nagel) and eluted with 40 µL RNase-free H2O. Five micrograms of total RNA was resolved on a 1.2 (w/v) % agarose gel in BPTE buffer (30 mM Bis–Tris, 10 mM PIPES, 1 mM EDTA) or on an 8% polyacrylamide/8 M urea gel in TBE (89 mM Tris, 89 mM boric acid, 2 mM EDTA) buffer before blotting on nylon N+ membrane (GE healthcare). RNAs were cross-linked to the membrane using a Stratalinker and probed with 32P end-labelled oligonucleotide probes as previously described (CITATION; CITATION). The probes used are listed in Table 2.  [[TABLE]]
