!~ABS~! • HSFA8 represents a redox-sensitive transcription factor. • Upon H 2 O 2 treatment HSFA8 translocates from the cytosol to the nucleus. • Mutagenesis of Cys24 and Cys269 blocks translocation of HSFA8 to the nucleus. HSFA8 represents a redox-sensitive transcription factor. Upon H 2 O 2 treatment HSFA8 translocates from the cytosol to the nucleus. Mutagenesis of Cys24 and Cys269 blocks translocation of HSFA8 to the nucleus.
!~RES~! Gene models of the HSF family members were sorted according their conserved cysteines with the highest conservation score ( CITATION ). Based on the top scoring position in the list and the previous suggestion as potentially redox sensitive HSF CITATION , respectively, HSFA1a and HSFA8 were selected for biochemical confirmation. Subsequent analyses showed that HSFA1a localized to the nucleus under all test conditions and therefore was not further analyzed (data not shown). For HSFA8 the best 15 hits based on overall sequence identity were selected and a phylogenetic tree was calculated. The tree topology was colored separately for each cysteine of the gene model to depict the conservation status of the cysteine among the different homologues ( CITATION ). The tree topology of HSFA8 is shown with the coloring of the putative redox-active cysteine (Cys24). CITATION shows the alignment region in vicinity of the redox-active cysteines of HSFA8. The alignments enabled us to determine the conservation status of each cysteine of the gene models in regard to the homologues. In case of HSFA8, 5 out of the 15 most similar sequences contained the Cys. Putative HSFA8 homologues were identified in papaya, grape and poplar. Among the conserved cysteines ( CITATION and CITATION ) which might be involved in sensing changes in the redox milieu of the cell by reversible thiol modifications CITATION , Cys24 is conserved in dicots, whereas Cys269 only occurred in Brassicaceae ( Arabidopsis lyrata , Brassica napus , Eutrema salsugineum ). In Medicago truncatula as in other dicots alternative Cys-residues exist downstream of the second Cys in AtHSFA8. For AtHSFA8, Cys24 in the DNA-binding domain and Cys269 in the C-terminal part of the protein were considered as promising candidates for redox regulation by intramolecular disulfide formation. Localization studies of HSFA8 were performed as follow up to the in silico analyses ( CITATION ) and revealed a cytosolic location. In the next step it was explored whether an oxidative stress or heat stimulus might affect HSFA8 localization. Under oxidising conditions imposed by H 2 O 2 -treatment ( CITATION B) HSFA8 moved from the cytosol to the nucleus within 2 h. HSFA8 was neither partitioned from the cytosol to the nucleus upon DTT-treatment nor in the untreated control ( CITATION A and C). Interestingly, heat stress of 40 °C ( CITATION E) was also ineffective. According to Mittler et al. CITATION HSFs could sense the H 2 O 2 -content inside the cell with “single-Cys” or “two-Cys” mechanisms by reversible thiol modifications. Our work addressed this hypothesis by determining the subcellular localization of HSFA8 under conditions of oxidative stress. To quantify the oxidising effect of externally applied H 2 O 2 , a quantification of DCF fluorescence in A. thaliana protoplasts in the presence of different H 2 O 2 concentrations was performed ( CITATION ). DCF fluorescence increased with rising H 2 O 2 concentrations ( CITATION A). The fluorescence intensity increased in two phases, a sensitive rise below 2 mM H 2 O 2 and a steady rise at higher H 2 O 2 . Signal intensity was high after 30 min and slightly decreased at 60 min, and further at 90 min ( CITATION B). The latter may indicate processes such as decomposition of H 2 O 2 , degradation of the fluorescent dye or activated defence reactions of the cells. As shown before CITATION A. thaliana cell cultures have a high capacity to reduce exogenous H 2 O 2 , but it seems likely that enough H 2 O 2 was outside to modify the redox state of the cytosol and to shift the redox state of the thiol-/disulfide redox regulatory network to a more oxidising state CITATION . Thus thiol oxidation appears to trigger the translocation of HSFA8. Little is known about the threshold, time delay and concentration of H 2 O 2 needed to activate HSFA8 translocation. This may explain why heat stress despite its effect on cell ROS development was unable to initiate HSFA8 translocation to the nucleus. Interestingly Miller and Mittler failed to observe transcriptional regulation of HSFA8 after heat shock CITATION . These results for the time being characterize HSFA8 as redox-sensitive but not heat-responsive HSF. In the next step we wanted to address the possibility that HSFA8 continuously shuttles between cytosol and nucleus. In this scenario oxidative inhibition of export eventually caused by H 2 O 2 could allow for nuclear accumulation. Protoplast samples were supplemented with Leptomycin B (LMB) which inhibits nuclear export CITATION ( CITATION A). Permanent shuttling and oxidative inhibition of export can be excluded since LMB caused no accumulation of HSFA8 in the nucleus. Activation of HSFs is suggested to involve oligomerisation. Therefore, the translocation of HSFA8:YFP upon initiation of oxidative stress was further investigated by exploring oligomerization by in vivo FRET analysis ( CITATION B). The FRET efficiency between fused YFP and CFP indicative for HSFA8 protein–protein interaction was calculated according to CITATION . As shown in CITATION B, the FRET efficiency in the nucleus increased significantly from 6.4 ± 0.8% which is below the significance threshold of interaction to 15.9 ± 0.5% after adding H 2 O 2 to the protoplasts. The corresponding data of the cytosol were 14.4 ± 1.9% at 0 mM H 2 O 2 and 13.6 ± 2.3 at 5 mM H 2 O 2 treatment. Both values showed a significant difference to the FRET-control measurement with free (unfused) CFP and YFP. The nuclear HSFA8 revealed no interaction at all in the 0 mM H 2 O 2 treatment which may be caused by the extremely low concentration of HSFA8 in the nucleus of untreated cells. Unchanged FRET efficiency between HSFA8:CFP and HSFA8:YFP in the cytosol contradicts the hypothesis of trimerisation as prerequisite for activation ( CITATION ). Chan-Schaminet et al. CITATION reported that HSF oligomers already exist in the cytoplasm of tomato under unstressed conditions. HSFA8 oligomers pre-exist in the cytosol as seen in CITATION . The quantitative analysis of the nucleus-localized YFP fluorescence revealed a significant increase of HSFA8 oligomers in the nucleus after applying 5 mM H 2 O 2 to the cells. This discovery was further explored in dependence on time by quantifying the movement in transfected protoplasts with HSFA8:YFP ( CITATION C). The emission intensity of YFP-fluorescence was quantified along a half transect across the protoplast image or in the nuclear region of interest (ROI) ( CITATION ). To get a measure for the HSFA8 translocation, the maximal nuclear intensity was divided by the maximal intensity in the cytosol at the time points as indicated. These ratios were plotted against the exposure time to H 2 O 2 ( CITATION C). A significant rise in the intensity ratio between nucleus and cytosol upon H 2 O 2 treatment was observed between t = 0 h until 2.5 h. The intensity versus time curve at lower H 2 O 2 increased roughly linearly with a trend to slow saturation. In contrast, the treatment with 10 mM H 2 O 2 caused a rapid rise within the first 30 min and then stayed at a rather constant level. The initial rise was close to twice as fast as in the case of 5 mM H 2 O 2 and the difference to the pretreatment value was already significant at t = 30′. These results indicate conformational changes of HSFA8 in vivo. To gain a better insight into how HSFA8 might sense the hydrogen peroxide in the cytosol a putative homology model was generated with a protein structure prediction tool ( CITATION ). The model shows the typical modular structure of HSFs CITATION . For HSFA8 a putative disulfide bond formation between Cys 24 and Cys 269 was predicted ( CITATION ) which would likely cause a drastic conformational change and might induce the translocation to the nucleus. To challenge this hypothesis, variants of HSFA8 namely C24S, C269S and the double mutant HSFA8 C24/269S were generated to test, if the two cysteines in HSFA8 are required for the translocation from the cytosol to the nucleus under oxidising conditions. Protoplasts were transfected with the described constructs ( CITATION ), and the intracellular distribution of the fusion proteins was monitored under oxidising conditions after 2 h. As shown before, HSFA8:YFP WT moved from the cytosol to the nucleus. In a converse manner the single mutants HSFA8 C24S ( CITATION B) and HSFA8 C269S ( CITATION C), and the double mutant HSFA8 C24/269S ( CITATION D) remained in the cytosol and did not show any accumulation in the nucleus within 2 h. The widely accepted model of HSR CITATION assumes that HSFs bind to HSPs under non-stress conditions. Interaction partners of HSFA8 were searched in silico with the interaction viewer, and the heat shock protein HSC70 was predicted to interact with HSFA8. Based on this information and the common HSR model, HSC70 was cloned in an expression vector and cotransfected with HSFA8-fluorophore fusion constructs into protoplasts ( CITATION ). In these experiments, FRET efficiency between HSFA8:YFP and HSFA8-CFP reached values of about 24.1% and thus exceeded that shown in CITATION . Coexpression of unlabeled HSC70 did not change this high value since the trend to increased FRET was insignificant. Subsequently, HSC70:YFP and HSFA8:CFP and the swapped fluorophores were tested for interaction between HSC70 and HSFA8 FRET efficiencies of 21.6 ± 4.2% and 25.6 ± 3.1% demonstrated molecular interaction in the cytosol to confirm the predicted interaction. FRET-values in the nucleus were significantly lower. It will be interesting to investigate the effect of oxidative treatment on HSC70/HSFA8 interaction in the cytosol in order to advance the mechanistic model. Apparently, the redox-sensing mechanism of HSFA8 was linked to the presence of Cys 24 and Cys 269 . Deletion of either single Cys or both abolished ROS-induced accumulation of HSFA8 in the nucleus. The results are in line with the assumption that disulfide bond formation between Cys 24 and Cys 269 controls the partitioning of HSFA8 between the cytosol and the nucleus. Another possibility could be the formation of intramolecular disulfide bridges stabilizing the DNA binding (Cys 24 ) on the one hand, and the transcriptionally active module in the CTD (C 269 ) on the other hand. Several testable explanations may be proposed: One explanation could be the unmasking of the nuclear import sequence upon disulfide bridge formation. Alternatively, oxidation could mask the export signal (NES) CITATION . Thirdly, oxidised HSFA8 might be released from multi-heteromeric complexes as proposed for the heat-induced activation of HSF. The large intervening amino acid sequence between Cys 24 and Cys 269 suggests that disulfide bond formation causes profound conformational changes which probably are required for the translocation to the nucleus CITATION . HSC70, a homologue of the HSP70 family interacted with HSFA8 in the cytosol. Analysis of the dynamics of this interaction in vitro and in vivo may provide further clues on involved structural dynamics. In conclusion, our work demonstrates the function of HSFA8 as redox-sensor, which is able to recognize oxidising conditions in the cytosol of a single cell and is subsequently translocated to the nucleus. This sensor may also be used in future experiments to monitor ROS and redox signaling in single cells. The regulatory features of other HSFs should be investigated for their responsiveness to H 2 O 2 similar to the analysis presented here CITATION .
!~MM~! A. thaliana ecotype Col-0 was grown on the MPI-soil mixture (MPIPZ, Cologne Project 187509, Germany) supplemented with Osmocote Start fertilizer (Scotts, USA) and Lizetan (Bayer, Germany) in a growth chamber with constant humidity of 55% and a day/night cycle of 10/14 h with quantum flux density of about 100 μmol quanta m −2 s −1 . A. thaliana mesophyll protoplasts were prepared according to Seidel et al. CITATION . Transfection of about 1000 protoplasts was performed with 75 μg plasmid DNA for each construct. H 2 O 2 and DTT were added at concentrations as indicated and image analysis was performed with AxioVision LE4.3 (Zeiss, Göttingen, Germany). For heat treatment, the protoplast-containing Petri dishes were placed in a water bath at 40 °C for given time CITATION . The use of Leptomycin B (LMB) as an inhibitor for the nuclear export CITATION was performed with 30 nM and the protoplasts were incubated for 3 h until analysis. The subcellular localization was visualized on the single cell level after 2 h with a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica SP2, Heidelberg, Germany). Unstressed samples served as control for each experiment. For the quantification of the oxidative stress effects of H 2 O 2 the protoplasts were loaded with 5 μM 2′,7′-dichlorofluorescein diacetate (DCFH-DA, Sigma–Aldrich, Hamburg, Germany) by incubating them in W5-solution containing DCFH-DA. Afterwards the protoplasts were washed twice. These protoplasts were treated with increasing concentrations of H 2 O 2 from 0 to 10 mM for 30, 60 or 90 min. The fluorescence emission of DCF and the chlorophyll autofluorescence were monitored with an AxioSkop 2 microscope using filter 09 (Zeiss, Göttingen, Germany). Pictures were taken with the AxioCam IC c1 (Zeiss, Göttingen, Germany). The intensities of green DCF emission and red autofluorescence were estimated with GIMP 2.6 (GNU Image Manipulation Program; Free Software Foundation, USA) and the green-to-red ratio was calculated. Full-length cDNA sequence of HSFA8 (At1g67970) and HSC70-1 (At5g02500) were obtained from the TIGR database ( http://www.tigr.org ). The open reading frame was amplified from A. thaliana cDNA without the stop codon using gene-specific primer pairs introducing flanking restriction sites for BamHI and AgeI in HSFA8 and BamHI in HSC70-1. All amplified products and the vectors 35S-YFP-NosT and 35S-CFP-NosT CITATION were digested with the restriction enzymes BamHI and AgeI (NEB) and purified (Promega, Wizard_Plus DNA purification kit). All constructs were sequenced. The mutants HSFA8C24S, HSFA8C269S or the double mutant HSFA8C24SC269S were generated with mutagenesis PCR using primers with single nucleotide exchanges ( CITATION , CITATION ). To perform FRET measurements 35S-HSFA8:YFP/35S-HSFA8:CFP were co-transfected into A. thaliana mesophyll protoplasts. All given combinations were analyzed using a confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica SP2, Heidelberg, Germany). FRET measurements were done, microscope settings selected and FRET efficiencies calculated as described before CITATION . Gene models of HSFs of A. thaliana were retrieved from the Plant Transcription Factor DataBase (Pln TFDB; CITATION ) and blasted for homologous sequences of HSFs. Following multiple alignments of the 15 coding sequences with highest similarity, the conserved Cys residues were identified and phylogenetic trees automatically constructed using a custom-built program written in YAVA script. A major element of the program was the determination of a score which describes the degree of conservation of the Cys residues and comparing it with the likelihood that a Cys at the same position originated by coincidence ( CITATION ). Subcellular localization of AtHSFA8 was predicted with www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP/ and www.bar.utoronto.ca/interactions/cgi-bin/arabidopsis_interactions_viewer.cgi . For determination of three dimensional structure of AtHSFA8 the RCSB Protein Database ( www.rcsb.org ) was used together with SWISS-MODEL ( swissmodel.expasy.org/ ) and the visualization tool chimera ( www.cgl.ucsf.edu/chimera/ ). The intramolecular disulfide formation of the two cysteines in HSFA8 was predicted with http://clavius.bc.edu/~clotelab/DiANNA ) CITATION .
