!~ABS~! PETAL LOSS binds AKIN10 in yeast, in vitro, and in the nucleus when transiently co-expressed in leaves. Together they may act to reduce cell division in boundaries between developing sepals.
!~RES~! To search for partners of the PTL protein, yeast two-hybrid screens were performed. A cDNA library was made from dissected inflorescences with buds no older than stage 5 (CITATIONet al., 1990) and combined with the yeast GAL4 AD. This was co-expressed with BD–PTL∆C1 as bait, in which the endogenous PTL activation region at the C terminus had been deleted (CITATION). An initial screen was carried out under stringent selective conditions for HIS3 activity (25mM 3-AT). Prey inserts of 12 strongly growing colonies were sequenced, and nine contained sequences encoding AKIN10 (At3g01090) (CITATION). Three other screenings of the same library using the same bait under more relaxed selection conditions (5, 1, and 0mM 3-AT), and choosing colonies of a range of sizes, also yielded predominantly AKIN10 clones. Of the inserts in 48 colonies sequenced, eight were AKIN10, representing two different cDNA insertions, commencing at codon E243 or L302, the latter downstream of the kinase domain (CITATION). When inserts of a larger sample of 447 clones from these three screenings were probed with an AKIN10-specific sequence, 97 (22%) hybridized. Maps of PTL and AKIN10, showing the results of yeast two-hybrid interactions. (A) Map of the PTL protein, showing the conserved trihelix DNA-binding domains, the central dimerization domain, and two terminal domains. BD–PTLΔC1, used in the library screen, removes a C-terminal activation region. The extent of other deletions used in yeast two-hybrid tests, and the results of these tests with AD–AKIN10, are shown. (B) Map of the AKIN10 protein, with functional domains predicted by Pfam. These are a kinase domain that includes a phosphorylated threonine at codon 198 (green), a ubiquitin-associated domain (UBA), and a C-terminal kinase-associated domain (KA1). The last 15 residues closely match a conserved nuclear export sequence (NES) (CITATIONet al., 2010). Its sequence in Arabidopsis (AKIN10/11/12), yeast (SNF1), and human (AMPKα1/2) proteins is shown, with conserved bulky hydrophobic amino acids (L, I, F, V, and M) indicated in red, and the predicted amphipathic α-helical region underlined in AKIN10. The overall map is based on splice form At3g01090.2, which includes an additional 5′ exon. The first methionine of the product of two other splice variants, At3g01090.1 and At3g01090.3, is indicated (M24). The extent of two truncated cDNA clones from a cDNA library that interacted with PTL in yeast cells is shown. Blue bars indicate the regions of AKIN10 and PTL required for their interaction. To further test the PTL–AKIN10 interaction, prey containing full-length coding sequences of AKIN10 (from splice variant 2) was generated (AD–AKIN10) and tested for interaction with full-length BD–PTL as bait. As this bait retained the PTL AD, we used 25mM 3-AT to prevent growth of control strains carrying the bait alone. BD–PTL and AD–AKIN10 showed strong growth, confirming their interaction (CITATION). The reverse combination, with BD–AKIN10 as bait and full-length AD–PTL as prey, also activated reporter genes, although somewhat more weakly (CITATION). PTL interacts with AKIN10 in yeast and in vitro. (A) Yeast two-hybrid interactions of full-length and deleted versions of PTL (see CITATION) with AKIN10, showing that interaction does not occur if the N terminal third of PTL is deleted. Medium contained 25mM 3-AT to require strong histidine prototrophy for growth, and to inhibit autoactivation conferred by the C-terminal region of PTL (for negative controls, see CITATIONet al., 2014). Left column: growth indicates interaction. Right column: control. (B) Autoradiograph showing co-immunoprecipitation of 35S-labelled AKIN10 with Myc-tagged PTL following treatment with anti-Myc antibody. The control (lane 1) lacks Myc–PTL. (C) Quantitative assay of yeast two-hybrid interaction between BD–PTLΔC1 and AD–AKIN11 showing a very weak interaction compared with AD–AKIN10. A positive control (p53 and T-antigen of simian virus 40) and a negative control (Lam and T-antigen) are also shown. Means of three assays±standard errors are plotted for each combination. To locate the region within PTL that interacts with AKIN10 in yeast, several partially deleted versions (CITATION) were tested as bait against AD–AKIN10 prey. Whereas deletions of the C-terminal region from codon 417 (ΔTC), or the mid-region (codons 205–416, ΔM), still showed a strong interaction, loss of the N-terminal region (up to codon 205, ΔN) did not (CITATION). Thus, in yeast cells the interaction domains fall in the N-terminal third of PTL (CITATION). PTL and AKIN10 also interacted in vitro. This was established by co-immunoprecipitation of 35S-labelled AKIN10 with epitope-tagged Myc–PTL when challenged with an anti-Myc antibody (CITATION). AKIN11 (At3g29160) encodes an alternative α-subunit of SnRK1. Its product is closely related to AKIN10, showing 82% identity and 90% similarity at the protein level (excluding exon 1 present in At3g01090.2). Both genes are ubiquitously expressed and at similar levels (CITATIONet al., 2005). However, AKIN11 was not detected in our screens, although we confirmed the presence of AKIN11 transcripts in the inflorescence cDNA pool by RT-PCR. Thus, we were interested to examine whether AKIN11 was also able to interact with PTL. A full-length open reading frame of AKIN11 was cloned into the prey vector (AD–AKIN11) and combined with PTL bait lacking the activation region (BD–PTL∆C1). Growth of yeast cells carrying both constructs was assessed on selective medium through the activity of the α-galactosidase protein in the host yeast strain Y187 (CITATION). AD–AKIN11 activation was more than 10 times lower than for AD–AKIN10, and only slightly higher than the negative control. Thus, a strong interaction with PTL is specific to AKIN10. For AKIN10 and PTL to physically interact, the transcripts and hence proteins must accumulate in the same cells (if they do not move between cells). To determine the tissue expression pattern of AKIN10 in developing buds, the upstream promoter region (including the 3′-untranslated region of the adjacent gene) and transcribed AKIN10 sequences down to the methionine in the second exon (codon 24) were translationally fused with GUS (CITATION) and inserted into plants. Regions both upstream and downstream of the transcriptional start site were found to be required for strong expression (CITATION and Supplementary Fig. S1 at JXB online). Expression patterns of AKIN10 and PTL in developing buds. (A) Design of the pAKIN10:GUS reporter constructs. Exons are shown in yellow and the GUS reporter in magenta. Solid lines indicate the four genomic regions used to drive GUS expression (a–d). Results summarized from 12 independent transformants of each are shown: +++, strong expression; +, weak expression; –, expression not detected (for examples,see Fig. S1). (B–F) Selections from transverse serial sections of an inflorescence expressing the full-length pAKIN10a:GUS. The product of the GUS reporter is blue but appears magenta under dark-field illumination. (G) Transverse section of an inflorescence expressing PTL (pPTL2.0i:GUS; see CITATIONet al., 2004). Asterisks indicate the inflorescence meristem, and numbers show the stages of flower development (CITATIONet al., 1990). Arrows in (G) indicate sites of PTL expression. These are also indicated in buds of equivalent stage from the AKIN10 expression series, or at earlier or later stages. [Note that sections of buds at stages 4 and 5 in (G) have intersected only one of the four PTL-expressing inter-sepal zones.] AKIN10 was widely expressed, especially in newly developing tissues (CITATION–CITATION). It was only weakly expressed in the inflorescence meristem and bud primordia up to stage 2, except for the epidermis. Later, it was more strongly and evenly expressed throughout buds as floral organs developed (sepals from stage 3; petals and stamens from stage 5). As the organs grew out from stage 7, expression remained relatively high, although at lower levels in mature tissues. By contrast, PTL expression in inflorescences was more restricted (CITATION) (CITATIONet al., 2004). It was not expressed in the inflorescence meristem itself. In flower primordia, it was expressed in regions associated with reduced growth, at first on each side of the flower primordium from stage 1, and then internal to the anlagen of the lateral sepals at stage 2 (CITATION, arrows). Its strongest expression occurred as four spots around the equator of the bud between newly arisen sepal primordia from stage 3 to stage 6. From stage 6 to stage 9, it was also expressed at the basal margins of developing sepals. All these regions corresponded with significant AKIN10 expression (CITATION–CITATION), although AKIN10 expression also occurred more widely. Before testing if PTL and AKIN10 proteins associate when both are transiently expressed in plant tissues, the cellular localization of AKIN10 was examined, as this is the subject of conflicting reports (CITATIONet al., 2009; CITATIONet al., 2011; CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2014). The fluorescently tagged construct 35S:YFP–AKIN10 was Agro-infiltrated into leaves of N. benthamiana and expression was observed by confocal microscopy. Significant accumulation was observed close to the plasma membrane, as well as more widely in the cytoplasm (CITATION). Nuclear accumulation was also consistently seen. This was somewhat variable in relative intensity among experiments, although replicate leaves within an experiment gave closely similar results. Nuclear localization was not anticipated because AKIN10 carries a conserved nuclear export sequence (NES), as found in orthologous Snf1 and AMPK kinases from yeast and mammals (CITATION) (CITATIONet al., 2010). Intracellular localization of AKIN10 in the cytoplasm (including the Golgi) and in nuclei. 35S:YFP-AKIN10 and the Golgi marker 35S:CFP-G-ck were jointly transfected into leaves of N. benthamiana, and fluorescence was viewed by confocal microscopy. (A–C) Accumulation of AKIN10 (A) occurred in the plasma membrane region and the cytosol, and more variably in punctate bodies that coincided with Golgi (B, C). Some accumulation also occurred in nuclei. (D–F) Higher magnification images from a time course (for full series, see Supplementary Movie S1 at JXB online), showing the coincidence of AKIN10 and CFP-G-ck in one cell. (G–I) Images from the same experiment as (A–F) but with incubation of leaf segments in brefeldin A, a Golgi inhibitor, for 25–30min before imaging, showing loss of punctate bodies. Images in (A–C) and (G–I) are three-dimensional reconstructions of z-stacks, and in (D–F) are single optical sections. Bars, 20 μm (A–C, G–I); 10 μm (D–F). In some cells, fluorescent punctate bodies were visible in the cytoplasm (CITATION, CITATION). On occasion, they were seen to move rapidly along linear pathways, and this behaviour, in addition to their number and size, suggested that they were Golgi bodies. To test this, we co-infiltrated 35S:YFP–AKIN10 with d35S:G-ck, a fluorescent CFP marker specific for Golgi apparatus (CITATION, CITATION) (CITATIONet al., 2007). Merged images showed that the punctate bodies coincided with the Golgi (CITATION, CITATION; Supplementary Movie S1). Furthermore, the bodies were lost if the excised infiltrated leaf segments were incubated in brefeldin A, a specific disruptor of Golgi structure (CITATION), before viewing (CITATION–CITATION). Thus, AKIN10 can accumulate in the Golgi when transiently expressed in leaf pavement cells. 35S:YFP–AKIN10 is found predominantly in the cytoplasm, whereas PTL accumulates in the nucleus (CITATIONet al., 2014). To test if the two proteins bind each other, we examined their intracellular localization when co-expressed in the same cell to determine if they both now occupied the same compartment. To differentially tag PTL and to ensure its strong nuclear localization, we added CFPN7 (CFP carrying the strong nuclear localization sequence N7; CITATIONet al. 2000) to generate 35S:CFPN7–PTL. First, we showed that 35S:CFPN7 alone (i.e. without the PTL sequence) (CITATION) did not affect localization of the YFP fluorescence pattern associated with AKIN10 (CITATION, compare with CITATION). However, when PTL was added (35S:CFPN7–PTL) (CITATION), the YFP–AKIN10 fluorescence was now much stronger in the nucleus (CITATION). To model the natural situation more closely, we generated a 35S:CFP–PTL construct without the added N7 NLS, thus relying on the endogenous NLS sequences in PTL (CITATION) (CITATIONet al., 2014). In this case, too, the PTL sequences were able to localize much of the otherwise cytoplasmic AKIN10 to the nucleus (CITATION). The conclusion is that AKIN10 and PTL proteins interact when both are transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves, and that the AKIN10 protein is predominantly carried into and retained in the nucleus as a consequence. Interaction of AKIN10 and PTL following transient expression in tobacco leaves. Heterodimerization of AKIN10 and PTL was tested using the MILo method (CITATIONet al., 2014). AKIN10 tagged with YFP was co-expressed with nuclear-localized CFP in leaves of N. bethamiana, and fluorescence was viewed by fluorescence microscopy. (A, B) As a negative control, 35S:YFP–AKIN10 was co-expressed with the nuclear-localized marker 35S:CFPN7 [shown when expressed alone in (B)]. YFP fluorescence remained predominantly cytoplasmic (A). (C, D) When 35S:YFP–AKIN10 was co-expressed with 35S:CFPN7–PTL (D), YFP was now mostly nuclear (C), indicating binding of AKIN10 and PTL and retention of the bound proteins in the nucleus. (E, F) When 35S:YFP–AKIN10 was co-expressed with 35S:CFP–PTL [lacking the supplementary NLS N7 but still nuclear (F)], YFP was still mostly nuclear (E), showing that PTL sequences were sufficient to co-localize AKIN10 in the nucleus. Bars, 100 μm. As a kinase, AKIN10 may bind PTL in order to phosphorylate it. To test this, AKIN10 protein, tagged with a 6×His epitope tag, was produced in E. coli and purified. It was then combined with a preparation of PTL protein tagged with a c-Myc epitope made using a rabbit reticulocyte translation system, and the combination was supplied with [γ-32P]ATP. Phosphorylation of AKIN10 was required for its activation, and phosphorylation of a protein band the size of AKIN10 was clearly apparent in this system (CITATION, CITATION). However, there was no indication of label associated with any protein similar in size to epitope-tagged PTL (CITATION). Test of phosphorylation of PTL by AKIN10. Mixed extracts of epitope-tagged AKIN10 and PTL proteins were incubated with [γ-32P]ATP and separated by gel electrophoresis. (A) Autoradiograph showing 32P-labelling of His–AKIN10-sized bands in lanes 3 and 4, but no labelling of Myc–PTL-sized bands in lanes 2 and 4, indicating that AKIN10 alone has been phosphorylated. (B) Western blot of the same extracts probed with anti-Myc antibody showing the presence of tagged PTL protein in lanes 2 and 4. (C) Western blot of the same extracts probed with anti-His antibody showing the presence of tagged AKIN10 protein in lanes 3 and 4.
!~MM~! Wild-type Columbia (Col-0) plants were grown at 20 °C under short days (9h light/ 15h dark) for 30 d, and then transferred to long days (16h light/ 8h dark) for 14 d. Primary inflorescence tips with buds no older than stage 5 (CITATIONet al., 1990) were dissected from surrounding leaves and the basal stem using a 26-gauge needle and snap frozen in liquid N2. Total RNA was extracted using an RNeasy Plant Minikit (Qiagen) and treated with DNase I (Ambion). A cDNA library was generated using a Clontech Matchmaker Library Construction and Screening kit. Activation domain (AD)-tagged cDNA inserts in plasmid pGADT7-Rec were generated (~2.2×107 clones) and amplified in yeast strain AH109. The Clontech Matchmaker Two-Hybrid System 3 was used. For library screening, binding domain (BD)-PTLΔC1 bait (plasmid pGBKT7) with the C-terminal AD removed (CITATIONet al., 2014) in cells of yeast strain Y187 were mated with the AD-library prey (plasmid pGADT7) in strain AH109, and approximately 4×107–1×108 diploids selected for each mating. 3-Amino-1,2,4-triazole (3-AT; Sigma) was included to suppress leaky growth of His3p and any activation by bait sequences, with the required concentration determined by trial runs. A concentration of 2.5mM 3-AT was found to be sufficient to inhibit auto-activation by full- length BD–PTL. For pairwise interaction tests, a full-length clone of the protein-coding sequence of AKIN10 (At3g01090.2) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (U24028; see Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online for primer sequences). Full-length AKIN11 coding sequence (At3g29160) was obtained from the inflorescence cDNA library by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and 5′-rapid amplification of cDNA ends. Truncations and deletions of PTL used to locate sites of interaction have been described elsewhere (CITATIONet al., 2014). Activation was quantified using triplicate technical assays of α-galactosidase activity of the MEL1 reporter in liquid cultures. Full-length PTL protein tagged with the c-Myc epitope and AKIN10 protein tagged with haemagglutinin were generated from inserts in pGBKT7 and pGADT7 plasmid clones, respectively (made for yeast two-hybrid screening), using rabbit reticulocytes (TnT T7 coupled system, Promega). AKIN10 was labelled with 35S-methionine (ICN) during synthesis. 35S-AKIN10 was incubated without and with Myc–PTL, and PTL was immunoprecipitated using Myc antibody following the instructions for the Matchmaker Co-IP kit (Clontech). The 1035bp region from the stop codon of the upstream gene (At3g01100.1) to the first methionine codon in the second exon of AKIN10 (as in splice form At3g01090.2) was amplified from genomic DNA (see Supplementary Table S1 for primer sequences) and translationally fused with the first methionine of the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene in plasmid pRITA. This full-length insert was labelled pAKIN10a:GUS. Three smaller versions of the insert were generated, carrying sequences from the 5′ end to the transcription start site of AKIN10 (526bp, pAKIN10b:GUS), from the end of the 3′-untranslated region of the upstream gene to the transcription start site (232bp, pAKIN10c:GUS), or from this start site to the 3′ end (509bp, pAKIN10d:GUS). The inserts were excised with NotI and inserted into pMLBART, transferred to Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1, and transformed into Columbia wild-type plants. For each insert, 12 independent T1 transformants were selected that yielded consistent GUS staining levels and patterns in at least seven transformants using a method reported previously (CITATIONet al., 2004). To avoid product leaching, 6mM potassium ferri- and ferrocyanide was included. To test the interaction between AKIN10 and PTL proteins, our modification of intracellular localization (MILo) method was used (CITATIONet al., 2014). This involves tagging potential partner proteins that occupy different cellular compartments with different fluorochromes. If the fluorescent tag of one protein is moved from one cellular compartment into that occupied by the other protein, we conclude that the two proteins bind stably. The 35S:YFP–AKIN10 construct was made by amplifying the AKIN10 coding sequences in clone U24028 (see above) to generate an EcoRI site adjacent to the ATG start codon and a BamHI site immediately downstream of the stop codon. This was inserted in frame downstream of the 35S–YFP sequence from plasmid pEYFP-C1 (Clontech) previously inserted in pART7 (CITATION). The full reporter sequence was excised with NotI and inserted into pMLBART for transformation into A. tumefaciens strain AGL1. The 35S:CFP–PTL construct, and the 35S:CFPN7–PTL derivative generated from it, were made using the plasmids mCerulean-C1 and pART7 as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2014). Joint transfection of leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) and cyan fluorescent protein (CFP) plasmids in AGL1 followed the method of CITATIONet al. (2014). All experiments were carried out using duplicate leaves for each treatment, and were replicated on at least three occasions. Fluorescence imaging using a Zeiss Axioskop 2 MOT compound microscope was as reported elsewhere (CITATIONet al., 2014). The 35S:YFP–AKIN10 construct above was jointly transfected into leaves of N. benthamiana with the CFP-tagged Golgi marker plasmid G-ck obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center. The latter carries the cytoplasmic tail and transmembrane domain of GmMan1, a soybean α-1,2-mannosidase (CITATIONet al., 2007), and was electroporated into A. tumefaciens AGL1 by Edwin Lampugnani (strain ERL292). Excised leaf segments were immersed either in distilled water alone or in water containing 50 μg ml–1 of brefeldin A (Genesearch). The latter (and water controls) were allowed to stand for 25–30min before viewing. Confocal images were collected using a Leica SP5 microscope. YFP images were obtained from fluorescence between 465 and 505nm excited using a 458nm laser line, and CFP images between 525 and 600nm using a 514nm laser line (both lines attenuated to 33%). Other details followed the method of CITATIONet al. (2013). PTL protein tagged with the c-Myc epitope was generated from the pGBKT7 plasmid clone using a rabbit reticulocyte system as above. The AKIN10 sequence was inserted into plasmid pQE30 (see Supplementary Table S1 for primer sequences), expressed in Escherichia coli strain M15 cells, and tagged with a 6×His epitope purified using nickel beads (Ni-NTA kit; Qiagen). The two protein preparations were incubated together with [γ-32P]ATP (ICN) and separated by 10% SDS-PAGE. Prior to Western blot transfer, the gel was wrapped in Clingwrap and autoradiographed. The gel was then blotted and the membrane treated with mouse monoclonal anti-Myc antibody (Co-IP kit; Clontech), followed by rabbit anti-mouse antibody tagged with horseradish peroxidase, which was detected by luminol chemiluminescence using an ECL Prime Western Detection kit (Amersham). A duplicate gel run in parallel was similarly blotted, treated with mouse monoclonal anti-His (Qiagen), and visualized as above.
