!~ABS~! Salt stress is a detrimental factor for plant growth and development. The response to salt stress has been shown to involve components in the intracellular trafficking system, as well as components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). In this article, we have identified in Arabidopsis thaliana a little reported ubiquitin ligase involved in salt-stress response, which we named STRF1 (Salt Tolerance RING Finger 1). STRF1 is a member of RING-H2 finger proteins and we demonstrate that it has ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro. We also show that STRF1 localizes mainly at the plasma membrane and at the intracellular endosomes. strf1-1 loss-of-function mutant seedlings exhibit accelerated endocytosis in roots, and have altered expression of several genes involved in the membrane trafficking system. Moreover, protein trafficking inhibitor, brefeldin A (BFA), treatment has increased BFA bodies in strf1-1 mutant. This mutant also showed increased tolerance to salt, ionic and osmotic stresses, reduced accumulation of reactive oxygen species during salt stress, and increased expression of AtRbohD, which encodes a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase involved in H2O2 production. We conclude that STRF1 is a membrane trafficking-related ubiquitin ligase, which helps the plant to respond to salt stress by monitoring intracellular membrane trafficking and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production.
!~RES~! In order to isolate novel E3 ligases of the RING finger family involved in the response to salt stress, we screened a pool of Ac-Ds Arabidopsis insertion lines in RING finger genes (Landsberg ecotype) (Parinov et al., CITATION). A collection of 150 mutant lines and its relative wild-type (WT) was sown in ½MS containing 200 mm NaCl. Salt-resistant seedlings were transferred to soil, and their offspring was scored again for the salt-resistant phenotype on a higher salt concentration (250 mm NaCl). Here we describe the characterization of one of these salt-resistant mutants, that we named strf1-1 (salt tolerance RING finger 1). In order to remove possible extraneous mutations, we backcrossed the strf1-1 mutant line to the WT. Analysis of the segregation rate of the F2 population on Kanamycin after the backcross indicated that the results were consistent with a resistant:sensitive seedlings ratio of 3:1 (354 resistant and 122 sensitive seedlings), thus indicating a single transposon insertion. Tail-PCR and Blast results confirmed that the Ds element was inserted in the coding region of the At5g58580 gene, 292 bp downstream of the ATG (Figure 1a). RT-PCR experiments revealed that the full-length STRF1 mRNA was absent in the strf1-1 mutant (Figure 1c). [[FIGURE]] Because no other STRF1 insertion mutants could be recovered from all available T-DNA insertion collections, to further confirm that the strf1-1 phenotype was due to the absence of a full-length STRF1 mRNA, we transformed strf1-1 plants with a construct overexpressing STRF1 (35S -STRF1-MYC (strf1-1)). Among the obtained independent T1 lines, some lines showed a significant increase in STRF1 mRNA levels, and T3 and T4 homozygous progeny was used for phenotypical analyses. When grown on 150 mm NaCl, ox-STRF1-1 seedlings not only showed complementation of the salt sensitive phenotype, but were even more sensitive to salt stress, probably due to STRF1 overexpression (Figure 1c; further details in next section). Taken together, these results indicate that the phenotype of the strf1-1 mutant is indeed caused by a single knockout insertion in the STRF1 gene. When strf1-1, ox-STRF1-1 and their relative WT seeds were germinated on 150 mm NaCl, differences could be observed already in the seed germination rate. At 3 days post germination (dpg), 93% seeds of the strf1-1 mutant were germinated, while only 72% seedlings were germinated for the WT. As for ox-STRF1-1 seedlings, only 58% were able to germinate (Figure 1e). This result indicated STRF1 could be a negative regulator in salt tolerance. In order to further analyze the salt response in seedlings lacking or overexpressing STRF1, we measured cotyledon greening rate in strf1-1, ox-STRF1-1 and their relative WT after 10 days of growth on medium containing 150 mm NaCl (Figure 1d). The percentage of green cotyledons was 86% for strf1-1, 79% for the WT and only 39% for ox-STRF1-1 seedlings (Figure 1f). These results suggest that altered levels of STRF1 affect salt response in terms of cotyledons greening. High salt concentrations causes hyperosmotic and ionic stress (Zhu, CITATION). To ascertain whether the salt tolerance in strf1-1 depended on the ionic or on the osmotic components of the NaCl stress, strf1-1, ox-STRF1-1 and their relative WT seedlings were grown in the presence or absence of 300 mm mannitol, whose osmotic effect is comparable with a 150 mm NaCl concentration. The strf1-1 mutant was more resistant than the WT in terms both of germination rate and of cotyledon greening to mannitol. In contrast, ox-STRF1-1 seedlings were more sensitive than the WT, as measured by their germination rate and their fresh weight (Figure 2a–c). These results suggested that the STRF1 gene is involved both in the ionic and osmotic response to salt stress. [[FIGURE]] The STRF1 gene encodes a protein of 310 amino acids (aa) with a predicted molecular mass of 34.29 kiloDaltons, and which contains two domains: a transmembrane domain and a RING domain encompassing aa 29–51 and aa 138–179 respectively, as predicted by the smart program (http://smart.embl-heidelberg.de/) (Figure 1b). The RING domain includes six highly conserved cysteines, two histidine residues, and is composed of two zinc-finger motifs (Figures 1b and 3a). This suggests that STRF1 could have E3 ligase activity. [[FIGURE]] Previous genome-wide studies had annotated STRF1 as ATL63, a member of ATL (Arabidopsis Toxicos en Levadura) family (Aguilar-Henonin et al., CITATION; Serrano et al., CITATION). All members of the ATL family contain a RING-finger domain. Indeed, up to now, three members of the ATL family, ATL2, ATL9 and ATL31, have been shown to be active E3 ligases in Arabidopsis (Serrano et al., CITATION; Nishizawa et al., CITATION; Sato et al., CITATION; Berrocal-Lobo et al., CITATION). To test whether STRF1 also has ubiquitin ligase activity, we carried out an in vitro ubiquitination assay. To this aim, we expressed and purified the full-length of STRF1 with MBP tag from Escherichia coli and tested its self-ubiquitination activity by incubating it with wheat E1 (Triticum aestivum), human E2 (UBCh5b), and His-tagged ubiquitin, followed by immunoblot analysis. While in the absence of E1 or E2, no polyubiquitination conjugates could be observed (Figure 3b), clear poly-ubiquitinated MBP–STRF1 conjugates could be observed when all reagents were present. The result was double confirmed by anti-Ub (Figure 3b up panel) and anti-MBP (tagged to STRF1, Figure 3b low panel) antibodies. This result indicates that STRF1 is a functional E3 ligase in vitro, and that it is dependent on E1 and E2 activity. As already described, STRF1 contains a putative transmembrane domain at its N-terminus (Figure 1b), suggesting that STRF1 might be a membrane protein. In order to prove this hypothesis, we sought to determine the subcellular localization of STRF1 by transiently overexpressing a STRF1–GFP fusion protein in leaf cells via agroinfiltration. The activity of STRF1 in STRF1–GFP fusion protein was verified by transform 35S-STRF1–GFP to strf1-1 to assay on the salt sensitivity (Figure S1). After 2 days from the inoculation, N. benthamiana leaves were subjected to subcellular fractionation and the presence of STRF1–GFP was verified by immunoblot analysis. As shown in Figure 4(a), a full size STRF1–GFP fusion protein was detected only in the pellet fraction when proteins were extracted with a detergent-free buffer, while it was detected in soluble fraction when proteins were extracted with a buffer containing 1% Triton-X 100. These results suggested that STRF1 likely associates with the cellular membrane system. [[FIGURE]] To further determine which sub-type of membrane STRF1 protein was localized to, N. benthamiana leaf cells transiently expressing the STRF1→GFP fusion protein were incubated with the lipophilic styryl dye FM4-64, which is known to stain endosomes and plasma membrane in Arabidopsis under low temperature, and observed under a confocal microscope (Vida and Emr, CITATION; Jelinkova et al., CITATION). As shown in Figure 4(b), STRF1–GFP localized mainly to the plasma membrane, but also co-localized with small cytosolic particles (see arrows in Figure 4b). The same particles were also stained with FM4-64, suggesting that STRF1 likely localizes to intracellular endosomes. To further substantiate this subcellular localization pattern, we co-expressed STRF1–GFP and several markers of different subcellular compartments in Arabidopsis protoplast cells. The results are shown in Figure 5 and indicate that STRF1–GFP subcellular localization was mostly identical to that of Man49-mCherry, which is a cis-Golgi vesicle marker (Xiong et al., CITATION). A similar co-localization was also found between STRF1–GFP and the RFP-tagged TGN/EE (trans-Golgi network/early endosome) marker SYP61 (Sanderfoot et al., CITATION; Uemura et al., CITATION). We also detected an overlapping subcellular distribution between STRF1–GFP and the mRFP-VSR2 marker, which marks the pre-vacuolar compartments (PVC) (Miao et al., CITATION) (Figure 5a–c). These results indicated that STRF1 localizes to the plasma membrane, the Golgi apparatus, and the PVCs and suggest that STRF1 might participate in salt-stress response by regulating membrane trafficking. [[FIGURE]] To test whether STRF1 has a role in membrane trafficking, we monitored the internalization levels of FM4-64 in root cells of the strf1-1 mutant, ox-STRF1-1 and of WT seedlings, treated or not with NaCl and mannitol. The results indicate that accumulation of FM4-64 in the strf1-1 mutant was already higher than in the WT under standard growth condition, but that it increased even more significantly after treatment with 200 mm NaCl and 400 mm mannitol (Figure 6a–d). Moreover, the response of ox-STRF1-1 plants in the FM4-64 uptake assays is similar to WT either in normal condition or salt-stress condition (Figure S2). This suggests that NaCl and mannitol accelerates endocytosis of FM4-64 already in the WT and, to a higher extent, in the strf1-1 mutant. [[FIGURE]] In order to further support the STRF1 involved in membrane trafficking, we examined the effect of protein trafficking inhibitor – brefeldin A (BFA) – in root cells of the strf1-1 mutant, ox-STRF1-1 and of WT seedlings. The results showed that BFA compartments were increased in strf1-1 mutant when compared with ox-STRF1-1 and of WT seedlings (Figure 6e,f). All these results indicated that STRF1 participated in membrane trafficking. We further confirmed the effect of STRF1 on membrane trafficking by monitoring its effects on the expression of genes encoding components of the membrane trafficking system. More than 500 genes affecting membrane trafficking had been identified in Arabidopsis (Oh et al., CITATION); among those, we decided to monitor by qRT-PCR the expression of several those genes which have been found to be involved in salt-stress response: ZATA-1 (encodes a clathrin adaptor subunit protein), whose expression is induced by salt stress (Oh et al., CITATION); AtRab7, which encodes a member of the Rab family of small GTPases, and plays a role in membrane identification, vesicle targeting specificity as well as in salt-stress response (Mazel et al., CITATION); SYP61, encoding a syntaxin, which participates in membrane fusion and in osmotic and salt-stress response (Zhu et al., CITATION); PI3K, encoding a kinase involved in endocytosis as well as in salt-stress response (Leshem et al., CITATION). The expression of these four genes was assessed in strf1-1 seedlings treated or not with 200 mm NaCl for increasing times, and compared with their levels in the WT. The results are shown in Figure 7(a) and indicate that while ZATA-1 expression was slightly but significantly higher in strf1-1 than in the WT, the addition of salt progressively reduced this difference, which was completely lost after 6 h of incubation (Figure 7a). A similar expression profile was observed for the AtRab7 gene. These results indicate that loss of STRF1 affects the expression of ZATA-1 and AtRab7 under standard growth condition, but not at the last stage of salt treatment. On the contrary, the expression of SYP61 did not significantly increase upon NaCl treatment in the WT or in strf1-1 (Figure S3a). As for PI3K (Figure S3b), its expression did not show any significant difference between the WT and strf1-1 in any growth conditions. In order to further clarify STRF1 function in membrane trafficking, we examined the phenotype of Atrab7strf1 double mutant on salt stress (Figure 7b,c). Because of the different ecotypes of Atrab7 and strf1 mutants, we adopted the microRNA technology to generate the Atrab7/amiR-STRF1 double mutant in the Atrab7 mutant plants. The results showed that Atrab7/amiR-STRF1 plants are sensitive to salt stress which mimic to Atrab7 mutant plants under same condition. Taken together, these results indicated that STRF1 might regulate the expression level of only a subset of endocytosis and membrane trafficking genes. At least one of possibility is that STRF1 functions in regulating AtRab7 expression to respond to salt stress. [[FIGURE]] One of the major effects of many abiotic stresses, including salt, is the development of an oxidative stress and the production of ROS (Apel and Hirt, CITATION). It has been demonstrated that some membrane trafficking genes, which are also involved in salt-stress response, can cause changes in ROS production. For example, AtRab7 overexpression in Arabidopsis leads to increased tolerance to salt stress and to reduced ROS accumulation, while PI3K was shown to coordinate the production of ROS that occurs during salt stress (Mazel et al., CITATION; Leshem et al., CITATION). The salt tolerant phenotype of strf1-1 prompted us to hypothesize that ROS levels might be altered in this mutant. To verify this hypothesis we monitored H2O2 levels in strf1-1 and WT seedlings by staining the seedlings with 3,3-diaminobenzidine (DAB). The results are reported in Figure 8(a) and show that strf1-1 seedlings produced considerably less ROS if compared with the WT upon NaCl induction, while no detectable difference was observed in seedlings grown in control conditions. [[FIGURE]] High salt is known to induce the expression of the AtRbohD, which encode a membrane-bound NADPH oxidase involved in H2O2 production (Leshem et al., CITATION; Xie et al., CITATION). Thus, we monitored the levels of AtRbohD expression in strf1-1 and WT seedlings by qRT-PCR (Figure 8b). Our results show that the AtRbohD transcript was significantly down-regulated in the strf1-1 mutant, if compared with the WT, after 2 h and 6 h of salt treatment. Taken together, these results suggested that STRF1 might be involved in salt-induced ROS production through the regulation of AtRbohD expression.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) was used for this study. Seeds were surface sterilized with 10% bleach and washed four times with sterile water. Sterile seeds were suspended in 0.2% agarose, plated on ½MS (Duchefa Biochemie, http://www.duchefa-biochemie.com/) contain 1.5% sucrose, stratified in darkness for 4 days at 4°C and then transferred to a tissue culture room at 22°C under a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod. After 2 weeks, seedlings were potted in soil and placed in a growth chamber at 22°C and 70% humidity under a 16-h light/8-h dark photoperiod. The ½MS medium was supplemented with 1.5% sucrose and NaCl, if required. For germination assays, seeds were collected at the same time, stratified and grown as indicated above and germination rate was scored every 12 h. To produce 35S-STRF1-MYC plants, a 927-bp BamHI–EcoRI fragment containing the STRF1 cDNA was cloned into the vector pCambia1300-221-MYC which has been previously constructed by our laboratory (Zhang et al., CITATION), in which transgenic expression is under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter and the coding region of STRF1 is fused translational to six repetitions of the MYC epitope. To produce Col 0/amiR-STRF1-14, Atrab7/amiR-STRF1-7 plants, we adopted microRNA technology to knockdown STRF1 expression in Col 0 and Atrab7. The Arabidopsis pre-miR159a (Niu et al., CITATION) sequence was used as a template for the construction of amiRNAs. The mature miR159 sequence was replaced with the designed amiRNA primers amiR-STRF1-1 (5′-AGATCTTGATCTGACGATGGAAGGCGGGTCAATGTCTGTCAAAACATGAGTTGAGCAGGGTA-3′) and amiR-STRF1-2 (5′-GGCGGGTCAATGAGTGTCAAAA GAAGAGTAAAAGCCATTA-3′). The primer 1 contains the BglII site (in italics) and the amiRNA* sequence (underlined). The primer 2 contains the mature amiRNA sequence (underlined). The PCR product was ligated into the pEASY-Blunt vector and sub-cloned into the plant binary vector pCAMBIA1300-221 vector with the BglII/SpeI (Life Technologies, https://www.lifetechnologies.com/cn/en/home.html) (which is in the pEASY-Blunt vector) digested to generate the pCAMBIA-pre-amiRNA, in which pre-amiRNA is placed downstream of a 35S promoter. For transient expression in tobacco epidermal cells, a STRF1–GFP gene fusion was constructed under the control of 35S promoter in the pCAMBIA1300-221–GFP vector which has been previously constructed in our laboratory (Liu et al., CITATION). In detail, a XhoI–STRF1–KpnI cDNA was obtained by amplification of the native cDNA with a STRF1-specific forward primer containing XhoI (Life Technologies) recognition site (STRF1 XhoI Fw) and a reverse primer containing a KpnI (Life Technologies) recognition site (STRF1 KpnI Rev), and cloned upstream of the GFP coding sequence in the pCAMBIA1300-221–GFP vector. Primers sequences are listed in Table S1. Arabidopsis transformation was performed by the vacuum infiltration method (Bechtold and Pelletier, CITATION) using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101. T1 and T2 seeds were selected on 20 μg ml−1 hygromycin, and the T2 plants were transferred to soil to obtain homozygous T3 seeds. For the phenotypical analysis, one homozygous line (T3 or T4 generation) was used. The agroinfiltration procedure was performed as described by Liu et al. (CITATION). Two days after agroinfiltration, the leaves were observed under a confocal microscope (Leica, http://www.leica.com/). For Arabidopsis protoplast transformation, mesophyll protoplasts were isolated from 4-week-old rosette leaves and co-transfected with pGFP2-STRF1–GFP and different endomembrane organelle markers, as previously described (Chen et al., CITATION). Transfected cells were kept in the dark at room temperature overnight, and observed the following day under a confocal microscope (Leica). Tobacco leaves and Arabidopsis seedling roots were stained with FM4-64 (Invitrogen, http://www.b2b.invitrogen.com/site/us/en/home.html) as described in (Mazel et al., CITATION; Leshem et al., CITATION). Briefly, tobacco leaves agroinfiltrated with STRF1–GFP were cut in small fragments, incubated in a medium containing 5 μg ml−1 FM4-64 for 40 min, rinsed with water for several times and observed under a confocal microscope (Leica). Arabidopsis roots were prepared from 5-day-old seedlings that were rinsed with sterile water, incubated in a liquid medium with or without 200 mm NaCl for 40 min and dipped in a medium containing 2 μm FM4-64 for 15 min. The degree of endocytosis was quantified by analyzing cytosolic FM4-64 fluorescence in confocal images of single cells, after converting the fluorescence intensity from individual confocal sections to gray-scale images. Arabidopsis roots were prepared from 5-day-old seedlings that were briefly washed and incubated in 50 μm BFA (Sigma-Aldrich, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/china-mainland.html) and 5 μg ml−1 FM4-64 for 30 min. The BFA compartments were counted in confocal images of single cells. DNase I-treated total RNA (10 μg) was denatured and subjected to reverse transcription reaction at 75°C for 15 min followed by 42°C for 1 h. STRF1 amplification was performed using STRF1-specific primers (STRF1 RT Fw and Rev). The following genes: ZATA-1 (At1g60970), AtSYP61 (At1g28490), AtRab7 (At1g49300), PI3K (At1g60490), AtRbohD (At5g47910) were also amplified with gene-specific primers listed in Table S1. ACTIN-1 was used as an internal control. Experiments were repeated two times, each in three analytical repeats. The STRF1 cDNA sequence (927 bp) was cloned into the pMAL-c2 vector (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA, USA), expressed in E. coli as a fusion with a maltose binding protein (STRF1-MBP) and purified according to the manufacturer's instructions. Crude extracts containing recombinant wheat E1 (GI: 136632), human E2 (UBCh5b) (Approximately 40 ng), STRF1-MBP (Approximately 1 μg), and Approximately 2 μg of purified His-tag Arabidopsis ubiquitin (UBC14, At4g0289) were used for the ubiquitin ligase activity assay as described by Zhang et al. (CITATION) and Zhao et al. (CITATION). Subcellular fractionation was carried out from STRF1–GFP agroinfiltrated tobacco leaves as previously described (Sato et al., CITATION). Proteins extracts were separated by SDS/PAGE, and analyzed by immunoblot. His-tagged ubiquitin was detected by an Ub antibody (Liu et al., CITATION); STRF1–MBP was visualized by chemiluminescence as instructed by the manufacturer (New England Biolabs). The accumulation of H2O2 in plants upon salt treatment was detected by DAB (3,3-diaminobenzidine) (Sigma-Aldrich) staining as described by Liu et al. (CITATION). Briefly, 14-day-old WT and strf1-1 seedlings were first incubated in with liquid medium for 1 day, followed by incubation in liquid medium containing 200 mm NaCl for different times. The true leaves were cut off and dipped in 1 mg ml−1 DAB (pH 3.8) for 8 h at 25°C in the light. The reaction was terminated by immersion of the leaves in a de-staining solution (20% acetic acid, 20% glycerol and 60% ethanol) and boiled for 3–10 min. The leaves were observed under an optical microscope (Zeiss Imager A1, http://www.zeiss.com/corporate/en_de/home.html).
