!~ABS~! Alternative splicing is prevalent in plants, but little is known about its regulation in the context of developmental and signaling pathways. We describe here a new factor that influences pre-messengerRNA (mRNA) splicing and is essential for embryonic development in Arabidopsis thaliana. This factor was retrieved in a genetic screen that identified mutants impaired in expression of an alternatively spliced GFP reporter gene. In addition to the known spliceosomal component PRP8, the screen recovered Arabidopsis RTF2 (AtRTF2), a previously uncharacterized, evolutionarily conserved protein containing a replication termination factor 2 (Rtf2) domain. A homozygous null mutation in AtRTF2 is embryo lethal, indicating that AtRTF2 is an essential protein. Quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated that impaired expression of GFP in atrtf2 and prp8 mutants is due to inefficient splicing of the GFP pre-mRNA. A genome-wide analysis using RNA sequencing indicated that 13–16% of total introns are retained to a significant degree in atrtf2 mutants. Considering these results and previous suggestions that Rtf2 represents an ubiquitin-related domain, we discuss the possible role of AtRTF2 in ubiquitin-based regulation of pre-mRNA splicing.
!~RES~! We previously used a two-component transgene silencing system—target plus silencer (T+S)—to identify factors required for RdDM and transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) of a GFP reporter gene under the control of an upstream enhancer active in meristem regions (Figure 1). Forward genetic screens using this system retrieved thirteen defective in meristem silencing (dms) mutants that are deficient in Pol V-associated components of the RdDM pathway (CITATION; CITATION). One mutant, dms4, which is disabled in a putative IWR1 (interacts with RNA polymerase II) transcription factor, is unique in displaying defects not only in RdDM/TGS but also in plant development (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To dissect the roles of DMS4 in RdDM and development, we initiated a genetic suppressor screen using a mutant harboring the dms4-1 allele (CITATION). One type of suppressor mutation anticipated in this screen restores RdDM/TGS but not normal development (sdr, suppressor of dms4, RdDM) (Figure S1). In addition to bona fide sdr mutants displaying the expected phenotypes (restoration of GFP silencing and enhancer methylation but not normal development), we identified two unusual mutants, sdr1-1 and sdr4-1. Although these two mutants were GFP negative and resembled phenotypically the dms4-1 mutant (Figure 2, A and B), the apparent silencing of the GFP reporter gene occurred without increases in DNA methylation at the target enhancer (Figure 2C). Moreover, subsequent genetic crosses revealed that the sdr1-1 and sdr4-1 mutations were able to impair GFP expression in a DMS4 wild-type background lacking the S locus (Figure 3A) and without an increase in DNA methylation (Figure 3B, sdr1-1 shown only). Thus, the sdr1-1 and sdr4-1 mutations diminish expression of the GFP reporter gene at the T locus in a manner that is independent of DNA methylation, the dms4-1 mutation, and the S locus that triggers RdDM. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Using classical mapping with codominant markers, we mapped the sdr1-1 mutation to the bottom arm of chromosome 5. Subsequent Illumina whole genome sequencing revealed a G-to-A nucleotide change (chr5: 23,485,838) in the gene At5g58020. This gene encodes a 354 amino acid protein that contains an Rtf2 (Replication termination factor 2) domain (Pfam PF04641), which is defined by a C2HC2 motif related to the C3HC4 RING-finger motif (CITATION) (Figure 4A). Rtf2 was discovered in fission yeast, where it is needed to stabilize a paused DNA replication fork to establish imprinting at the mating type locus (CITATION). Although Rtf2 proteins are found in eukaryotes ranging from fission yeast to humans (Figure 4B), the Rtf2 orthologs in plants have an N-terminal extension of ∼80 amino acids (Figure 4C). In contrast to the high amino acid sequence similarity in the Rtf2 domain among different plant species, the N-terminal extension is only weakly conserved at the amino acid sequence level (Figure 4C). The sdr1-1 mutation results in substitution of glycine for glutamic acid at position 85 (G85E), which is located at the beginning of the conserved Rtf2 domain (Figure 4, A and C). We will refer to the SDR1 protein hereafter as AtRTF2 and the sdr1-1 mutation as atrtf2-1. [[FIGURE]] To complement the atrtf2-1 mutation and test a functional requirement for the N-terminal extension, we generated constructs encoding HA-tagged versions of full-length AtRTF2 (AtRTF2-HA) and a truncated form lacking most of the N-terminal region (AtRTF2ΔN-HA) under the control of the endogenous AtRTF2 promoter (Figure 5A). These constructs were introduced into the atrtf2-1 mutant containing the T locus. As assessed by GFP protein accumulation using Western blotting, AtRTF2-HA but not AtRTF2ΔN-HA complemented the atrtf2-1 mutation and restored wild-type levels of GFP expression (Figure 5B). These results demonstrate that full-length AtRTF2 including the N-terminal segment is required for correct GFP expression. [[FIGURE]] Two transfer-DNA (T-DNA) insertion alleles, atrtf2-2 and atrtf2-3, were obtained from a public stock center. Both strains harbor T-DNA insertions within the Rtf2 motif (Figure 4A). When homozygous, the putative null atrtf2-2 allele conditions defects in embryogenesis and lethality shortly after germination (Figure 6, A and B), confirming that AtRTF2 is an essential gene (CITATION). By contrast, the other two alleles, atrtf2-1 and atrtf2-3, are hypomorphic and display only mild developmental phenotypes. The developmental defect in atrtf2-2 was complemented by transgene constructs encoding full-length AtRTF2 but not the truncated version lacking most of the N-terminal extension (Table 1). These results demonstrate that full-length AtRTF2 is essential for both normal development and for proper expression of the GFP reporter gene. [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] Although AtRTF2 has been considered a plastid-targeted protein (CITATION) we found that an AtRTF2-GFP fusion protein under the control of the native promoter accumulates predominantly in the nucleus (Figure 6C). Expression of AtRTF2 is ubiquitous and particularly strong in developing embryos during seed maturation (Arabidopsis eFP Browser, CITATION). Using classical mapping with codominant markers, we mapped the sdr4-1 mutation to a genetic interval on the bottom arm of chromosome 1. Subsequent Illumina whole genome sequencing region revealed a G-to-A mutation (chr1: 30,125,295) in the gene At1g80070. This gene encodes the core splicing factor PRP8 (pre-mRNA processing 8), which is one of the largest and most highly conserved proteins of the spliceosome (CITATION). We will refer hereafter to SDR4 as PRP8 and the sdr4-1 mutation as prp8-7 (Figure 7). The mutation we recovered results in the substitution of a highly conserved glycine residue at position 1820 to glutamic acid (G1820E), which is in the RNase H domain of the PRP8 protein (Figure 7). Similarly to AtRTF2, PRP8 is expressed ubiquitously and shows particularly strong expression during seed maturation (Arabidopsis eFP Browser, CITATION). Homozygous null prp8 mutations result in an abnormal suspensor and embryo lethality (CITATION). Plants homozygous for the prp8-7 mutation grow and reproduce normally, although they are somewhat late flowering, indicating that the prp8-7 allele is hypomorphic. [[FIGURE]] AtRTF2 was identified in the same screen as PRP8, a known splicing factor, and GFP expression is impaired in a DNA methylation-independent manner in both atrtf2-1 and prp8-7 mutants. Moreover, both genes have similar expression patterns and null mutations are embryo lethal. These observations suggest that AtRTF2 and PRP8 act in the same pathway, prompting us to test for defects in GFP pre-mRNA splicing in the atrtf2-1 and prp8-7 mutants. We had originally predicted from the structure of the T construct that GFP transcription would initiate in the minimal promoter upstream of the GFP coding sequence (Figure 1). In practice, however, this minimal promoter does not appear to be used and we detected instead three major GFP transcripts that are likely to result from alternative splicing of a pre-mRNA initiating upstream in the distal enhancer region (CITATION) (Figure 8A; Figure S3). The “short” transcript, which results from productive splicing of a cryptic intron with noncanonical donor and acceptor sites (AT-AC), can be translated into GFP protein using the first methionine codon after the transcription start site (Figure S4). Mutational analysis confirmed that the short transcript is indeed the major GFP mRNA (Figure S5). By contrast, the “long” unspliced transcript and the ‘middle” transcript, which results from unproductive splicing of a conventional GT-AG intron (Figure 8A; Figure S3), contain a number of PTCs after the initiating methionine and cannot be translated into a functional GFP protein (Figure S4). [[FIGURE]] Consistent with a role for AtRTF2 and PRP8 in splicing the GFP pre-mRNA, the ratio of the short translatable and long untranslatable transcripts varied in wild-type and mutant plants. In GFP-positive plants (T line and atrtf2-1 mutant complemented with the wild-type AtRTF2-HA sequence; Figure 8B, lanes 1 and 4), the short translatable transcript was prominent. By contrast, in GFP-negative plants (atrtf2-1 and prp8-7 mutants, atrtf2 mutant complemented with the truncated AtRTF2ΔN-HA construct; Figure 8B, lanes 2, 3, and 5, respectively), the long untranslatable transcript was the predominant form. AtRTF2 and PRP8 are thus required to splice the AT-AC intron to generate a translatable GFP mRNA. Quantitative RT-PCR confirmed the different ratios of short and long transcripts in wild-type plants and the atrtf2-1 mutant (Figure 8C). To determine whether atrtf2 mutations affect splicing of introns genome-wide, we performed RNA-seq on total RNA extracted from seedlings of the T line and homozygous atrtf2-1 and prp8-7 mutants, as well as newly germinated embryos that were either heterozygous (normal) or homozygous (arrested; Figure 6A) for the atrtf2-2 null mutation. Because the main splicing defect observed for the GFP reporter gene in the atrtf2-1 and prp8-7 mutants was intron retention (IR), which is also the most common outcome of alternative splicing in plants (CITATION), we focused our analysis of the RNA-seq data on IR events. In atrtf2-1, atrtf2-2, and prp8-7 mutants, 13.6, 15.7, and 6.7% of total introns, respectively, displayed a significant degree of increased intron retention (Figure 9A). Both major U2 and minor U12 introns were affected to a comparable degree. A 62.1% overlap in IR events was observed between atrtf2-1 and atrtf2-2 using the total number of IRs in atrtf2-2 as a denominator, and ∼38.6% overlap in IRs was observed between atrtf2 mutants and prp8-7, using the total number of IRs in prp8-7 as a denominator (Figure 9A; Table S2). [[FIGURE]] Following the definition of IR fold change in a previous publication (CITATION), the distributions of fold changes of significantly increased IR events follow the power-law distribution, which shows linear distributions in the log-log scale (Table S2, sheet 5), where the maximum fold changes were 3291.5, 10127.3, and 2718.1 for atrtf2-1, atrtf2-2, and prp8-7, respectively. The median fold changes of the three samples were all above five, which means that more than half of significantly increased IR events showed fold changes greater than five in each mutant. Additionally, >98% of significantly increased IR events represent introns fully covered by reads of the sample, suggesting that almost all increased IR events retain full introns. Our method identifies significantly increased and reduced IR events equally. However, in the mutants, increased IRs predominate among significant IR events (16,467 vs. 919 for atrtf2-1; 19,031 vs. 874 for atrtf2-2; and 8124 vs. 1875 for prp8-7), indicating that the mutations in AtRTF2 and PRP8 are associated with reduced splicing efficiency. Table S2, sheet 6 gives a summary table of significantly increased IR events. Several cases of IR events affecting endogenous genes in the atrtf2-1 and prp8-7 mutants were validated using qRT-PCR (Figure 9B). To initiate studies on proteins that may associate with AtRTF2 in a complex, we carried out affinity purification of the AtRTF2-GFP fusion protein followed by mass spectrometry. This analysis revealed a number of predicted and known splicing factors, including PRP8, as well as other proteins not directly related to splicing (Table S3).
!~MM~! The sdr1-1/atrtf2-1 and sdr4-1/prp8-7 mutants were screened from an ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenized population of the dms4-1 mutant (CITATION). Mapping of the sdr1-1/atrtf2-1 and sdr4-1/prp8-7 mutations was carried out on F2 mapping populations using codominant markers as described previously (CITATION). Whole-genome sequencing and data analysis to locate the causal mutations in these mutants were performed according to a prior protocol (CITATION). Two T-DNA insertion alleles, atrtf2-2 (SALK_040515) and atrtf2-3 (SALK_081659), were obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (CITATION). For complementation tests of the defect in GFP expression in the atrtf2-1 mutant, constructs encoding C-terminal HA-tagged AtRTF2 and HA-tagged AtRTF2ΔN—which lack amino acids 6–73 of an ∼80 amino acid, plant-specific N-terminal extension in the AtRTF2 protein—were cloned under the control of the native AtRTF2 promoter into a modified binary vector based on pCB302 (CITATION) and introduced into the homozygous atrtf2-1 mutant (hypomorphic allele) in a T locus background (WT DMS4, no S locus) using the floral dip method (CITATION). Transformed seedlings (T1) were selected on solid Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 20 mg/liter phosphinothricine (PPT). Complementation of the defect in GFP expression by the HA-tagged constructs in the atrtf2-1 mutant was assessed by Western blotting using a GFP antibody in T2 or T3 progeny of selected lines. Complementation of developmental defects conditioned by the null atrtf2-2 mutation was tested in two ways. In one approach, homozygous atrtf2-1 plants containing either the AtRTF2-HA or AtRTF2ΔN-HA construct were crossed with plants heterozygous for the atrtf2-2 null allele. The resulting F1 progeny were allowed to self-fertilize, producing F2 progeny. Normal-looking F2 seedlings were genotyped for the T-DNA insertion in the atrtf2-2 mutant. In a second approach, AtRTF2-GFP and AtRTF2ΔN-GFP constructs were introduced into the heterozygous atrtf2-2 mutant using the floral dip method. T1 plants (selected by their resistance to PPT) were allowed to self-fertilize to produce T2 progeny. Normal-looking T2 progeny were genotyped for the T-DNA insertion in the atrtf2-2 mutant. Primers used for genotyping are shown in Supporting Information, Table S1. In both cases, successful complementation by a particular transgene construct was determined by recovery of normal-looking progeny that were homozygous for the atrtf2-2 allele. Fluorescence images of GFP expression in roots of PPT-resistant seedlings expressing the AtRTF2-GFP and AtRTF2ΔN-GFP fusion genes under the control of the native AtRTF2 promoter were made using a Leica TCS LSI-III confocal microscope system. DNA methylation analysis of the target enhancer by bisulfite sequencing was carried out as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Genomic DNA was isolated using a Plant Genomic DNA Purification kit (GeneMark, Taiwan). For bisulfite sequencing, 1 μg of genomic DNA was digested with HindIII. Purified DNA was converted using an EpiTect Bisulfite kit (Qiagen). PCR products using primers listed in Table S1 were cloned with pGEM T-Easy Vector system (Promega) and transformed into competent Escherichia coli cells. A total of 16–20 independent clones were sequenced. Exon 15 of the PHAVOLUTA gene was used as a control for complete bisulfite conversion (primers in Table S1) (CITATION). Approximately 3 μg of genomic DNA was sonicated to ∼250 bp before it was ligated to Illumina adaptors, then size selected, denatured, and treated with sodium bisulfite (BS) to reveal their methylation status. The BS-sequencing libraries were sequenced using the Illumina HiSequation 2000 platform to generate up to 100 cycles in paired ends. The reads were aligned to the reference genome (TAIR10) using BS Seeker 2 (CITATION). To profile genome-wide DNA methylation, the methylation level for each covered cytosine in the genome is estimated as #C/(#C + #T), where #C represents the number of methylated reads and #T corresponds to the number of unmethylated reads. The methylation level per cytosine serves as an estimate of the percentage of cells containing methylation at this cytosine. The raw reads and the processed dataset for the new methylomes (dms4-1, sdr1-1, and dms4-1 sdr1-1) are publicly available from National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) GEO under accession no. GSE63238. The raw reads and the processed dataset for the wild-type methylome (CITATION) can be downloaded from NCBI GEO under accession no. GSE47453. Protein extraction, SDS/PAGE, and Western blotting to detect GFP and tubulin proteins were carried out according to published procedures (CITATION; CITATION). Total RNAs were isolated from ∼3-week-old seedlings using a Plant Total RNA Miniprep Purification kit (GeneMark, Taiwan) and treated with RQ1 DNase (Promega) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Complementary DNA (cDNA) was synthesized using the Transcriptor First Strand cDNA Synthesis kit (Roche) following the manufacturer’s protocol using an oligonucleotide d(T) primer and 1 μg of total RNA. One microliter of cDNA was used as a template for RT-PCR. The PCR conditions for detecting GFP transcripts were as follows: 94° for 2 min followed by 30 cycles of 94° for 10 s, 58° for 20 s, and 72° for 2 min, and finally 72° for 7 min. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed using a 7500 Real-Time PCR system (Applied Biosystems) with the program recommended by the manufacturer using 1 μl of cDNA as a PCR template and SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems). To validate intron retention events identified from the RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) data, several endogenous genes were selected on the basis of their P-values (Table S2) for quantitative RT-PCR analysis. Stably expressed At5G60390 was used for normalization (CITATION). Three biological replicates were carried out for each sample. Error bars indicate standard error. Primer sets for RT-PCR and quantitative RT-PCR are shown in Table S1. To determine the transcription start site for each GFP transcript, cDNA synthesis, 5′ RACE, and cloning the RACE product into the vector were carried out using SMARTer RACE 5′/3′ kit (Clontech) according to the manufacturer’s instructions using 1 μg of total RNA as starting material. The PCR conditions for the first amplification were 35 cycles of 94° for 30 s, 68° for 30 s, and 72° for 3 min, and for the nested PCR were 20 cycles of 94° for 30 s, 68° for 30 s, and 72° for 2 min. At least three clones for each cDNA (long, middle, and short) were sequenced. Gene-specific primers are listed in Table S1. Total RNA was extracted from ∼14-day-old seedlings of the T line, sdr1-1/atrtf2-1 and sdr4-1/prp-8-7 mutants (T background), and from newly germinated seedlings of the heterozygous (normal phenotype) and homozygous (arrested development) atrtf2-2 mutant using a Plant Total RNA Miniprep Purification kit (TR02; GeneMark, Taiwan). The protocol with RNA Lysis Solution B was used. Libraries for RNA-seq were prepared following Illumina TruSeq stranded mRNA sample preparation kit (RS-122-2103) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Briefly, 4 μg of total RNA were used for library construction. PolyA RNA was captured by oligodT beads and fragmented after elution from the beads. The first-strand cDNA was synthesized by reverse transcriptase (SuperScrip III, 18080-093, Invitrogen) using dNTP and random primers. The second-strand cDNA was generated using a dUTP mix. The double-stranded cDNA was subjected to the addition of a single “A” base to the 3′ end followed by ligation of the barcoded Truseq adapters. Finally, the products were purified and enriched with 12 cycles of PCR to create the final double-stranded cDNA library. A final size selection was performed by 2% low-range agarose (161-3107, Bio-Rad) gel electrophoresis to yield a library of inserts 250–350 bases in length. The library was extracted from the agarose gel using MinElute PCR purification kit (28004, Qiagen). Final libraries were analyzed using Agilent High Sensitivity DNA analysis chip (5067-4626, Agilent) to estimate the quantity and check the size distribution and were then quantified by qPCR using the KAPA Library Quantification kit (KK4824, KAPA). The prepared library was pooled for paired-end sequencing using IlluminaHiSequation 2500 at YourGene Bioscience Co. (New Taipei City, Taiwan) with 126-bp paired-end sequence reads. Approximately one hundred million reads per sample were sequenced. All RNA-seq FASTQ files are available from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) at NCBI under the following accession nos.: T line (SRR1652313); atrtf2-1 (SRR1652314); prp8-7 (SRR1652315); atrtf2-2 heterozygous (SRR1652316); and atrtf2-2 homozygous (SRR1652317). Reads from RNA sequencing were mapped to the TAIR10 genome using BLAT (CITATION) with the default setting. Under a threshold of 95% mapping identity, ∼92% of reads per sample were accepted. RackJ (http://rackj.sourceforge.net/) was then used to compute average depths of all exons and all introns. Given a control sample and a mutant sample, the preference of an intron retention event was measured using a χ2 test for goodness of fit by comparing the depths of the intron in the two samples taking the depths of neighboring exons in the two samples as the background. Here, depth was defined as total covering read bases divided by intron (or exon) length. In so doing, an intron has been retained in a higher chance than in the other sample would be inferred, and an intron retention event was identified as significantly increased if its P-value based on the χ2 value was ≤0.05 and the ratio intron depth/exon depth in mutant was larger than that in the control. See Table S2 for the comparison tables. Selected examples of intron retention were chosen for validation by quantitative RT-PCR according to the procedure described above. Primers used are shown in Table S1. Total proteins were extracted from 2-week-old seedlings of T, AtRTF2-GFP, and AtRTFΔN-GFP transgenic plants. The T line serves as a negative control to eliminate nonspecific interactions with GFP. Five grams of seedlings were ground in liquid nitrogen. After grinding, 10 ml of immunoprecipitation (IP) buffer [50 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM MgCl2, 10% glycerol, 0.1% NP-40, 2 mM DTT, 1 mM PMSF, 0.7 μg/ml pepstatin A, 10 μg/ml MG132, and protease inhibitor (Roche)] were added to extract proteins. The solution was centrifuged twice at 9000 × g for 10 min at 4° to remove insoluble cell debris. The supernatant comprised the protein extract that was used for immunoprecipitation. One hundred microliters of GFP-trap magnetic beads (ChromoTek) were washed three times with 1 ml of IP buffer and then added to the 10 ml protein extract. The whole solution was incubated at 4° overnight with 20 rpm agitation. Following this step, the beads were collected using a magnetic stand and washed three times with 1 ml of IP buffer. The bound proteins were eluted by boiling in 30 µl of 4% SDS for 10 min. A linear ion trap mass spectrometer (Q Exactive MS, Dionex nanoUHPLC, Thermo Scientific) combined with an on-line nano-scale high performance liquid chromatography system (nanoACQUITY UPLC, Waters Corp.) was used for protein identification and analysis. The liquid chromatography (LC) system consists of an autosampler and a binary pump, a C18 trap (Symmetry C18, 180 µm × 2.0 cm, 5 µm, Waters Corp.) and a C18 nanoACQUITY UPLC column (BEH130 C18, 75 µm × 10 cm, 1.7 µm, Waters Corp.). The linear gradient applied to separate tryptic peptides was from 5 to 40% of acetonitril in 0.1% (v/v) formic acid. LC was run for 90 min at nanoflow (300 nl/min) rate. The C18 reverse phase column was coupled to a nano-electrospray ionization (nESI) source. Prior to LC/MS/MS analysis, the affinity purified proteins were digested with trypsin according to the filter-aided sample preparation method (CITATION). Four microliters of the resulting peptide solution was loaded onto the column. The data acquisition was performed with a full MS scan followed by four MS/MS scans. The MS scan range was over the mass to charge (m/z) from 400 to 1800 using the data-dependent data acquisition mode with dynamic exclusion enabled. The MS/MS data were converted to peak list files with extract_msn script (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and then analyzed by a Mascot search program (Matrix Science Inc., Boston) against the Arabidopsis database. Proteins with more than two matching peptides were retained, and the proteins with peptide score over 10 and protein score over 20 were considered as reliable hits. Only the proteins with unique peptides identified were included in further analysis. The results shown in Table S3 are derived from three independent biological replicates.
