!~ABS~! Protein palmitoylation, which is critical for membrane association and subcellular targeting of many signaling proteins, is catalyzed mainly by protein S-acyl transferases (PATs). Only a few plant proteins have been experimentally verified to be subject to palmitoylation, such as ROP GTPases, calcineurin B like proteins (CBLs), and subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. However, emerging evidence from palmitoyl proteomics hinted that protein palmitoylation as a post-translational modification might be widespread. Nonetheless, due to the large number of genes encoding PATs and the lack of consensus motifs for palmitoylation, progress on the roles of protein palmitoylation in plants has been slow. We combined pharmacological and genetic approaches to examine the role of protein palmitoylation in root hair growth. Multiple PATs from different endomembrane compartments may participate in root hair growth, among which the Golgi-localized PAT24/TIP GROWTH DEFECTIVE1 (TIP1) plays a major role while the tonoplast-localized PAT10 plays a secondary role in root hair growth. A specific inhibitor for protein palmitoylation, 2-bromopalmitate (2-BP), compromised root hair elongation and polarity. Using various probes specific for cellular processes, we demonstrated that 2-BP impaired the dynamic polymerization of actin microfilaments (MF), the asymmetric plasma membrane (PM) localization of phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate (PIP2), the dynamic distribution of RabA4b-positive post-Golgi secretion, and endocytic trafficking in root hairs. By combining pharmacological and genetic approaches and using root hairs as a model, we show that protein palmitoylation, regulated by protein S-acyl transferases at different endomembrane compartments such as the Golgi and the vacuole, is critical for the polar growth of root hairs in Arabidopsis. Inhibition of protein palmitoylation by 2-BP disturbed key intracellular activities in root hairs. Although some of these effects are likely indirect, the cytological data reported here will contribute to a deep understanding of protein palmitoylation during tip growth in plants. The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s12870-015-0441-5) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
!~RES~! To examine cellular processes affected by 2-BP in root hairs, it was necessary to develop a suitable treatment regime that would reveal the effects of inhibiting protein palmitoylation on cellular processes without causing severe cellular damages. To do so, we utilized the subcellular localization of CBL2 as an indicator for the effective inhibition of palmitoylation. CBL2 dissociated from the tonoplast and moved to the cytoplasm when its key palmitoylation site was mutated [CITATION] or in the pat10 mutants [CITATION]. Based on previous studies [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION], we added 2-BP at a final concentration of 10 μM to 50 μM to ProUBQ10:CBL2-RFP transgenic seedlings 4 days after germination (DAG) in a hypotonic MS solution, to determine the effects on the tonoplast association of CBL2. Because 2-BP was dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), equivalent volumes of DMSO were applied as controls in which no phenotypic consequences were detected over the time course of the experiments (Figure CITATIONA,B). As an additional control, we also introduced the same ProUBQ10:CBL2-RFP transgene into pat10-2 by crosses [CITATION], in which CBL2 was rendered cytosolic (Figure CITATIONE,F). As expected, 2-BP treatment resulted in gradual relocalization of CBL2 from the tonoplast to the cytoplasm of root hairs (Figure CITATION). Root hairs incubated with 10 μM 2-BP for 2–3 hrs showed the most substantial reduction of CBL2 at the tonoplast (Figure CITATIONG) and at 12 hrs showed complete absence of tonoplast-CBL2 (Figure CITATION). Increasing 2-BP concentration from 10 μM to 50 μM did not substantially accelerate the tonoplast dissociation of CBL2 but induced extensive vacuolation (Additional file CITATION: Figure S1). Based on these results, we used 10 μM 2-BP on root hairs and examined cellular processes from 2 to 12 hrs after 2-BP application for further experiments.Figure 12-BP abolished the tonoplast localization of CBL2 in root hairs. A-D. 4 DAG seedlings of Pro UBQ10:CBL2-RFP transgenic plants treated with either DMSO (A, B) or 2-BP (C, D) for 4–12 hr before visualization. E-F. 4 DAG seedlings of Pro UBQ10:CBL2-RFP;pat10-2 transgenic plants treated with DMSO for 4–12 hr before imaging. Representative initiating (A, C, E) or elongating (B, D, F) root hairs are shown. V indicates vacuole. G. Quantification of CBL2-RFP distribution in the tonoplast v.s. the cytoplasm (Tonoplast/Cyt) at different time points after 2-BP treatment. a.u. stands for arbitrary fluorescence units. Bars = 7.5 μm. 2-BP abolished the tonoplast localization of CBL2 in root hairs. A-D. 4 DAG seedlings of Pro UBQ10:CBL2-RFP transgenic plants treated with either DMSO (A, B) or 2-BP (C, D) for 4–12 hr before visualization. E-F. 4 DAG seedlings of Pro UBQ10:CBL2-RFP;pat10-2 transgenic plants treated with DMSO for 4–12 hr before imaging. Representative initiating (A, C, E) or elongating (B, D, F) root hairs are shown. V indicates vacuole. G. Quantification of CBL2-RFP distribution in the tonoplast v.s. the cytoplasm (Tonoplast/Cyt) at different time points after 2-BP treatment. a.u. stands for arbitrary fluorescence units. Bars = 7.5 μm. We examined the effect of inhibiting protein palmitoylation on the initiation and polar growth of root hairs. Application of 10 μM 2-BP for 12 hrs did not cause a substantial change in primary root length (Figure CITATIONA). However, compared to roots treated with DMSO, those treated with 2-BP showed a much expanded region of root hair initiation (Figure CITATIONA), suggesting inhibited root hair elongation. Indeed, the polar growth of root hairs was significantly affected by 2-BP treatment, such that root hairs were shorter and wider than those treated with DMSO at the maturation zone (Figure CITATIOND,E,F,G). In addition, 2-BP caused extensive vacuolation in growing root hairs, compared to root hairs treated only with DMSO (Figure CITATIOND,E).Figure 2 2-BP impaired root hair growth. A. Primary roots from 4 DAG seedlings of wild type treated with either DMSO or 2-BP. B. Primary roots from 4 DAG seedlings of pat10-2 treated with either DMSO or 2-BP. C. Primary roots from 4 DAG seedlings of tip1-4 treated with either DMSO or 2-BP. D-E. Representative root hairs at the hair elongation zone of 4 DAG seedlings treated with either DMSO (D) or with 2-BP (E). F-G. Root hair length (F) and width (G). Results are means ± standard errors (SE), N = 4. Length or width of mature wild-type root hairs treated with DMSO was set as 1. Empty bars represent DMSO treatment while filled bars represent 2-BP treatment. Asterisks indicate significant difference (Student’s t-test, P < 0.05). Bars = 500 μm for (A-C); 20 μm for (D-E). 2-BP impaired root hair growth. A. Primary roots from 4 DAG seedlings of wild type treated with either DMSO or 2-BP. B. Primary roots from 4 DAG seedlings of pat10-2 treated with either DMSO or 2-BP. C. Primary roots from 4 DAG seedlings of tip1-4 treated with either DMSO or 2-BP. D-E. Representative root hairs at the hair elongation zone of 4 DAG seedlings treated with either DMSO (D) or with 2-BP (E). F-G. Root hair length (F) and width (G). Results are means ± standard errors (SE), N = 4. Length or width of mature wild-type root hairs treated with DMSO was set as 1. Empty bars represent DMSO treatment while filled bars represent 2-BP treatment. Asterisks indicate significant difference (Student’s t-test, P < 0.05). Bars = 500 μm for (A-C); 20 μm for (D-E). Most Arabidopsis PATs represented on the ATH1 Chip [CITATION] are expressed in root hairs or pollen tubes (Additional file CITATION: Figure S2). Indeed, tip1 mutants exhibited defective growth in both root hairs and pollen tubes [CITATION-CITATION]. TIP1 was shown to be Golgi-localized [CITATION] by using transient expression in tobacco epidermal cells. However, transient heterogeneous expression with strong constitutive promoters does not always reflect the native localization of proteins, as is the case for PAT10 [CITATION,CITATION]. To determine its native localization, we introduced a TIP1 genomic fragment-GFP translational fusion driven by its native promoter (TIP1g-GFP) into tip1-4, a novel null mutant (Additional file CITATION: Figure S3). TIP1g-GFP fully restored the root hair defects of tip1-4 (Figure CITATIOND,E,F), indicating that the GFP fusion did not interfere with its functionality. To verify that the punctate vesicles labeled by TIP1 were of Golgi identity, we applied the lipophilic dye FM4-64 and the fungal toxin Brefeldin A (BFA) to TIP1g-GFP;tip1-4 roots. FM4-64 enters cells via endocytic trafficking and sequentially labels trans-Golgi network/early endosomes (TGN/EE), prevacuolar compartment/multivesicular bodies (PVC/MVB), then finally reaches the tonoplast [CITATION]. BFA interferes with the activity of Arf GTPases and its application resulted in the formation of so-called BFA compartments with a TGN/EE core surrounded by aggregates of Golgi [CITATION]. FM4-64 uptake together with BFA treatment confirmed the localization of TIP1 at the Golgi (Additional file CITATION: Figure S4). To find out whether TIP1 played a dominant role in root hair growth, we applied 2-BP to tip1-4 roots and analyzed root hair morphology. There were slight but not significant morphological changes to root hair length and width in 2-BP-treated tip1-4 (Figure CITATIONC,D,E,F), suggesting that TIP1 is a major PAT functioning in root hairs.Figure 3 TIP1 and PAT10 localize at different endomembrane compartments in root hairs. A-C. Representative initiating root hair (A), elongating root hair (B), or mature root hair (C) of 4 DAG PAT10g-GFP;pat10-2 transgenic seedlings. D-F. Representative initiating root hair (D), elongating root hair (E), or mature root hair (F) of 4 DAG TIP1g-GFP;tip1-4 transgenic seedlings. Bars = 10 μm. TIP1 and PAT10 localize at different endomembrane compartments in root hairs. A-C. Representative initiating root hair (A), elongating root hair (B), or mature root hair (C) of 4 DAG PAT10g-GFP;pat10-2 transgenic seedlings. D-F. Representative initiating root hair (D), elongating root hair (E), or mature root hair (F) of 4 DAG TIP1g-GFP;tip1-4 transgenic seedlings. Bars = 10 μm. PAT10 is also expressed in root hairs (Additional file CITATION: Figure S2). However, it was unclear whether PAT10 played a role in root hair growth [CITATION]. In PAT10g-GFP;pat10-2, PAT10 was localized at the tonoplast of root hairs at all stages (Figure CITATIONA,B,C). We therefore analyzed the root hair morphology of pat10-2 in the absence or presence of 2-BP. Root hair initiation and polarity was not affected, as hair width was comparable between WT and pat10-2 (Figure CITATIONG). However, root hair length was significantly reduced by PAT10 loss-of-function (Figure CITATIONF). Treatment of 2-BP resulted in similar defects in pat10-2 as in wild type (Figure CITATIONA), i.e. root hair initiation was substantially inhibited (Figure CITATIONB). These results suggest that protein palmitoylation is important for root hair growth, with TIP1 plays a major role and other PATs, such as PAT10, also participating. Because 2-BP treatment significantly affected the polar growth of root hairs, we explored the underlying mechanisms by examining the effects of 2-BP on critical intracellular activities during root hair growth such as the dynamic polymerization of actin MF [CITATION-CITATION] and the asymmetric PM distribution of PIP2 [CITATION-CITATION]. To analyze actin MF dynamics, we treated Arabidopsis transgenic plants expressing GFP-ABD2-GFP, which specifically labels actin MF [CITATION,CITATION-CITATION] with either 10 μM 2-BP or DMSO and examined the pattern of actin MF in root hairs. In root hairs treated with DMSO, longitudinal or slightly helical actin cables extended to the subapical region from the base while short actin bundles as indicated by punctate filamentous signals were present in the apical region where active growth occurred (Figure CITATION). By contrast, treatment with 2-BP caused fragmentation as well as extensive cross-linking of actin MF (Figure CITATION). As a result, few longitudinal actin cables were observed in 2-BP-treated bulging root hairs (Figure CITATION). Instead, numerous short actin filaments formed a mesh-like network extending to the apical region (Figure CITATION). In elongating root hairs under 2-BP treatment, actin cables along the root hair shank were dotted with punctate actin aggregates (Figure CITATION). These effects occurred as quickly as 2–3 hrs after 2-BP treatment, indicating the sensitivity of the dynamic polymerization of actin MF. Treatment of root hairs with the actin MF depolymerization drug Latrunculin B (LatB) indicated that depolymerization of actin MF did result in punctate aggregates (Additional file CITATION: Figure S5). However, LatB treatment did not cause extensive cross-linking of actin MF in root hairs (Additional file CITATION: Figure S5), in contrast to those treated with 2-BP (Figure CITATION). These results suggest that the effect of 2-BP on actin MF polymerization is complex.Figure 4 2-BP induced fragmentation and cross-linking of actin MF in root hairs. 4 DAG seedlings of Pro 35S:GFP-ABD2-GFP transgenic seedlings were treated with DMSO or with 10 μM 2-BP for 2–3 hr before imaging. 18 to 20 root hairs at different stages were examined and representative images are shown. Single section indicates one optical section taken at the mid-plane of a root hair. For each root hair shown, twenty 1 μm optical sections were superimposed to generate the projection of Z-stacks. Bars = 10 μm. 2-BP induced fragmentation and cross-linking of actin MF in root hairs. 4 DAG seedlings of Pro 35S:GFP-ABD2-GFP transgenic seedlings were treated with DMSO or with 10 μM 2-BP for 2–3 hr before imaging. 18 to 20 root hairs at different stages were examined and representative images are shown. Single section indicates one optical section taken at the mid-plane of a root hair. For each root hair shown, twenty 1 μm optical sections were superimposed to generate the projection of Z-stacks. Bars = 10 μm. To determine the effect of 2-BP on the asymmetric PM localization of PIP2, we treated a P15Y fluorescence sensor line [CITATION] with 2-BP or with DMSO. The P15Y sensor line expresses a ProUBQ10-driven PIP2-binding TUBBY-C fused with CITRINE [CITATION]. As shown by other PIP2 sensors [CITATION], PIP2 was asymmetrically localized at the PM of initiation sites in trichoblasts (Figure CITATIONA). During hair elongation, PIP2 maintained its asymmetric PM localization at the apical region (Figure CITATIONB). Application of 2-BP significantly redistributed fluorescence signals from the PM to cytosol (Figure CITATIONC,D,E), suggesting abolished PIP2 at the PM. For root hairs either at the initiation stage (Figure CITATIONC) or at the elongating stage (Figure CITATIOND), PIP2 was detected mostly in the cytoplasm and hardly at all at the PM. The residual signals at the PM were uniform (Figure CITATIOND) rather than asymmetric (Figure CITATIONB).Figure 5 2-BP treatment re-distributed the PIP 2 sensor from the PM to the cytoplasm in root hairs. A. DMSO-treated root hairs expressing the PIP2 sensor (green) at the initiating stage. B. 2-BP-treated root hairs expressing the PIP2 sensor at the initiating stage. C. DMSO-treated root hairs expressing the PIP2 sensor at the elongating stage. D. 2-BP-treated root hairs expressing the PIP2 sensor at the elongating stage. E. Ratio of fluorescence signals. a.u. stands for arbitrary fluorescence units. Cyt/PM indicates the ratio of cytoplasmic to the plasma membrane signal. Results are means ± standard deviation (SD, n = 30). Asterisk indicates significant difference (Student’s t-test, P < 0.01). Root hairs were stained with the fluorescence dye propidium iodide (red) to outline cell shape. Corresponding bright-field images are shown together with merges of different channels. Bars = 7.5 μm. 2-BP treatment re-distributed the PIP 2 sensor from the PM to the cytoplasm in root hairs. A. DMSO-treated root hairs expressing the PIP2 sensor (green) at the initiating stage. B. 2-BP-treated root hairs expressing the PIP2 sensor at the initiating stage. C. DMSO-treated root hairs expressing the PIP2 sensor at the elongating stage. D. 2-BP-treated root hairs expressing the PIP2 sensor at the elongating stage. E. Ratio of fluorescence signals. a.u. stands for arbitrary fluorescence units. Cyt/PM indicates the ratio of cytoplasmic to the plasma membrane signal. Results are means ± standard deviation (SD, n = 30). Asterisk indicates significant difference (Student’s t-test, P < 0.01). Root hairs were stained with the fluorescence dye propidium iodide (red) to outline cell shape. Corresponding bright-field images are shown together with merges of different channels. Bars = 7.5 μm. The effect of 2-BP on the dynamic polymerization of actin MF and PIP2 distribution indicated polarity defects. Because actin MF and PIP2 distribution in tip-growing plant cells are regulated by or associated with ROP GTPases [CITATION,CITATION] that are subjected to palmitoylation [CITATION-CITATION], we wondered if 2-BP treatment could redistribute ROP GTPases into the cytoplasm or cause an uniform localization at the PM rather than the apex-restricted PM localization in root hairs [CITATION,CITATION]. To this end, we applied either DMSO or 2-BP to ProE7:GFP-ROP2 transgenic seedlings in which ROP2, the key ROP GTPase regulating root hair growth [CITATION], was driven by a root hair-specific promoter [CITATION]. ROP2 was concentrated at the PM of hair initiation sites in trichoblasts of ProE7:GFP-ROP2 transgenic seedlings treated with DMSO (Figure CITATIONA), as previously reported [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. Expression of ROP2 caused root hair bulging (Figure CITATIONA,B,C). Likely due to the overexpression effect, ectopic ROP2 signals were detected along the PM as well as in the cortical cytoplasm (Figure CITATIONA,B,C). By contrast, 2-BP treatment induced rapid re-localization of ROP2 from the PM to the cytoplasm (Figure CITATIOND,E,F). Significant differences were observed as early as 30 min after 2-BP treatment (Figure CITATIONG).Figure 6 2-BP treatment relocalizes ROP2 from the PM to the cytoplasm. A-C. Representative initiating root hair (A), elongating root hair (B), or mature root hair (C) of 4 DAG Pro E7: GFP-ROP2 transgenic seedlings treated with DMSO for 3 hr. D-F. Representative initiating root hair (D), elongating root hair (E), or mature root hair (F) of 4 DAG Pro E7: GFP-ROP2 transgenic seedlings treated with 2-BP for 3 hr. G. Ratio of fluorescence signal intensity indicating the relative distribution of ROP2 in the cytoplasm and PM (Cyt/PM). a.u. stands for arbitrary fluorescence units. Results are means ± SD, n = 16. Bars = 7.5 μm. 2-BP treatment relocalizes ROP2 from the PM to the cytoplasm. A-C. Representative initiating root hair (A), elongating root hair (B), or mature root hair (C) of 4 DAG Pro E7: GFP-ROP2 transgenic seedlings treated with DMSO for 3 hr. D-F. Representative initiating root hair (D), elongating root hair (E), or mature root hair (F) of 4 DAG Pro E7: GFP-ROP2 transgenic seedlings treated with 2-BP for 3 hr. G. Ratio of fluorescence signal intensity indicating the relative distribution of ROP2 in the cytoplasm and PM (Cyt/PM). a.u. stands for arbitrary fluorescence units. Results are means ± SD, n = 16. Bars = 7.5 μm. Polarized growth requires regulated exocytosis to deliver building materials for membranes and cell walls. In Arabidopsis root hairs, RabA4b-mediated secretory vesicles form an inverted cone-shaped pattern critical for polarized growth [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION,CITATION]. To determine the effect of 2-BP on RabA4b-positive post-Golgi secretion, we applied either 2-BP or DMSO to 4 DAG seedlings transformed with Pro35S:RFP-RabA4b. As reported previously [CITATION,CITATION,CITATION,CITATION], RFP-RabA4b was dynamically distributed to the apical cytoplasm in the form of an inverted cone with a trail in growing root hairs, which was not disturbed by DMSO (Figure CITATIONA). Such a distribution pattern was dynamically maintained as long as root hairs grew (Figure CITATIONE, Additional file CITATION: Movie S1). Application of 2-BP incurred two noticeable effects in root hairs: it disrupted the tip-focused inverted cone pattern and caused aggregation of RabA4b-positive vesicles (Figure CITATIONB-D,F, Additional file CITATION: Movie S2). The effects of 2-BP were observed as early as 2 hr after treatment (Figure CITATIONB-D), suggesting that post-Golgi secretory trafficking was sensitive to the inhibition of protein palmitoylation. Disruption of the tip-focused RabA4b-distribution pattern correlated with the growth kinetics of root hairs, in that RabA4b was more concentrated in the apical region than in the shank region in growing root hairs (Figure CITATIONC) whereas completely dissipated into punctates in non-growing root hairs (Figure CITATIOND). Despite the disruption on RabA4b-positive secretory trafficking, by following single aggregates during time-lapse confocal fluorescence microscopy, we observed that at least some vesicles were able to be exocytosed (Figure CITATIONF).Figure 7 2-BP treatment interfered with the dynamics of RabA4b-positive secretory vesicles. A. Distribution of RabA4b-positive vesicles in a growing root hair of 4 DAG RFP-RabA4b transgenic seedlings treated with DMSO for 2 hr. The arrowhead points at the base of the clear zone where RabA4b-positive vesicles form an inverted cone. Below is merge of fluorescence and bright field images. B-D. Distribution of RabA4b-positive vesicles in a root hair right after initiation (B), a growing root hair (C), or an arrested root hair (D) of 4 DAG RFP-RabA4b transgenic seedlings treated with 10 μM 2-BP for 2 hr. The arrows point at enlarged vesicles positive for RabA4b. Below are the merges of fluorescence and bright field images. E-F. RFP-RabA4b fluorescence was visualized in root hairs treated with DMSO (E) or 10 μM 2-BP (F) for 2 hr using time-lapse confocal fluorescence microscopy. Left-most are the bright-field images. The arrowhead points to the base of the clear-zone. The arrows follow the moving track of a single large vesicle over time. Bars = 7.5 μm. 2-BP treatment interfered with the dynamics of RabA4b-positive secretory vesicles. A. Distribution of RabA4b-positive vesicles in a growing root hair of 4 DAG RFP-RabA4b transgenic seedlings treated with DMSO for 2 hr. The arrowhead points at the base of the clear zone where RabA4b-positive vesicles form an inverted cone. Below is merge of fluorescence and bright field images. B-D. Distribution of RabA4b-positive vesicles in a root hair right after initiation (B), a growing root hair (C), or an arrested root hair (D) of 4 DAG RFP-RabA4b transgenic seedlings treated with 10 μM 2-BP for 2 hr. The arrows point at enlarged vesicles positive for RabA4b. Below are the merges of fluorescence and bright field images. E-F. RFP-RabA4b fluorescence was visualized in root hairs treated with DMSO (E) or 10 μM 2-BP (F) for 2 hr using time-lapse confocal fluorescence microscopy. Left-most are the bright-field images. The arrowhead points to the base of the clear-zone. The arrows follow the moving track of a single large vesicle over time. Bars = 7.5 μm. The disrupted RabA4b distribution pattern by 2-BP prompted us to test whether endocytosis was affected because polarized growth requires balanced exocytosis and endocytosis to maintain the dynamic integrity of the cell membranes and walls. FM4-64 enters into plant cells through the PM by endocytosis and eventually reaches the tonoplast [CITATION]. To determine whether 2-BP interfered with endocytic trafficking, we pre-treated 4 DAG seedlings with 10 μM 2-BP or DMSO for 2 hrs before pulse-labeling the roots with 4 μM FM4-64. In both initiating (Figure CITATIONA) and elongating root hairs (Figure CITATIONC) pre-treated with DMSO, FM4-64 was internalized from the PM into the TGN/EE (Additional file CITATION: Movie S3). By contrast, no cytosolic vesicles were observed in root hairs pre-treated with 2-BP during the time course of the experiment (Additional file CITATION: Movie S4) either in initiating root hairs (Figure CITATIONB) or in elongated root hairs (Figure CITATIOND), indicating complete inhibition of endocytosis.Figure 8 2-BP inhibited endocytosis in root hairs. A. FM4-64 uptake in initiating root hairs pre-treated with DMSO for 2 hr. B. FM4-64 uptake in initiating root hairs pre-treated with 10 μM 2-BP for 2 hr. C. FM4-64 uptake in elongating root hairs pre-treated with DMSO for 2 hr. D. FM4-64 uptake in elongating root hairs pre-treated with 10 μM 2-BP for 2 hr. Images shown are representative of 18–25 root hairs analyzed in three independent experiments. Bars = 10 μm. 2-BP inhibited endocytosis in root hairs. A. FM4-64 uptake in initiating root hairs pre-treated with DMSO for 2 hr. B. FM4-64 uptake in initiating root hairs pre-treated with 10 μM 2-BP for 2 hr. C. FM4-64 uptake in elongating root hairs pre-treated with DMSO for 2 hr. D. FM4-64 uptake in elongating root hairs pre-treated with 10 μM 2-BP for 2 hr. Images shown are representative of 18–25 root hairs analyzed in three independent experiments. Bars = 10 μm. Endocytic trafficking starts at the PM and ends at the vacuole. To find out whether vacuolar trafficking was influenced by 2-BP treatment, we followed the endocytic trafficking of FM4-64 to the tonoplast. FM4-64 labeled both cytosolic vesicles and the tonoplast after 30–40 min uptake in root hairs (Figure CITATIONA). Because BFA treatment caused aggregation of FM4-64-labeled TGN/EE into BFA compartments (Figure CITATIONB), we reasoned that a BFA washout would allow us to examine the process of vacuolar trafficking from TGN/EE via PVC/MVB to vacuoles. In root hairs treated with DMSO, BFA washout led to the labeling of FM4-64 of the tonoplast (Figure CITATIONC), indicating undisturbed trafficking from the TGN/EE to vacuoles. However, in the presence of 2-BP, BFA washout resulted in dissipation of FM4-64 signals from the BFA compartments (Figure CITATIOND). Furthermore, FM4-64 was redistributed mostly to the PM rather than to the tonoplast (Figure CITATIOND), suggesting that 2-BP caused mis-sorting of vesicles originally destined to vacuoles.Figure 9 2-BP interfered with vacuolar trafficking. A-D. 4 DAG WT seedlings were pulse-labeled with FM4-64, washed and incubated for 30 min (A), or pulse-labeled with FM4-64 followed by 30 min incubation with 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 50 μM BFA (B). BFA-treated seedlings were then washed with 1/2 MS medium supplemented with either DMSO (BFA wo + DMSO) (C) or 2-BP (BFA wo + 2-BP) (D). Arrows point at the tonoplat labeled by FM4-64. Arrowhead indicates the BFA compartment. Results are representative of 20 root hairs for each treatment. Bars = 7.5 μm. 2-BP interfered with vacuolar trafficking. A-D. 4 DAG WT seedlings were pulse-labeled with FM4-64, washed and incubated for 30 min (A), or pulse-labeled with FM4-64 followed by 30 min incubation with 1/2 MS medium supplemented with 50 μM BFA (B). BFA-treated seedlings were then washed with 1/2 MS medium supplemented with either DMSO (BFA wo + DMSO) (C) or 2-BP (BFA wo + 2-BP) (D). Arrows point at the tonoplat labeled by FM4-64. Arrowhead indicates the BFA compartment. Results are representative of 20 root hairs for each treatment. Bars = 7.5 μm. To further support the idea that 2-BP inhibited vacuolar trafficking, we applied either 2-BP or DMSO to root hairs expressing YFP-2XFYVE, which binds specifically to PI3P [CITATION]. Because PI3P goes to vacuoles for degradation through vacuolar trafficking routes from TGN/EE to PVC/MVB, we reasoned that this would serve as a good biosensor for vacuolar trafficking [CITATION]. Indeed, 2-BP but not DMSO induced the formation of ring-shaped compartments positive for PI3P, to an extent similar to but less substantial than that caused by wortmannin (Additional file CITATION: Figure S6), through which PVC/MVBs on their way to vacuoles fuse to form ring-shaped compartments [CITATION]. These results indicated that vacuole trafficking through the TGN/EE and PVC/MVBs was compromised by 2-BP.
!~MM~! The T-DNA insertion line, SALK_089971C (tip1-4), was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC, http://www.arabidopsis.org). Primers F1/R1 were used to characterize TIP1 expression in tip1-4. Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 ecotype was used as wild type. Arabidopsis plants were grown as described [CITATION]. For seedlings growing on plates, surface-sterilized Arabidopsis seeds were grown on Murashige and Skoog basal medium with vitamins (MS) (Phytotechlab, http://www.phytotechlab.com/) except where noted. Plates were kept at 4°C in darkness for 4 days before being transferred to a growth chamber with a 16-h light:8-h dark cycle at 21°C. Transgenic plants were selected on MS medium supplemented with 30 μg/ml Basta salt (Sigma, http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/). All vectors were generated using the Gateway™ technology (Invitrogen). Entry vectors for the coding sequence of CBL2 and the whole genomic sequence of TIP1 including its native promoter were generated in the pENTRY/SD/D-TOPO (Invitrogen) using the primer pair ZP595/ZP596 for CBL2 and ZP533/ZP534 for TIP1g. The destination vector ProUBQ10:GW-RFP was generated by replacing the Pro35S promoter with ProUBQ10 using the primer pair ZP510/ZP511 with the SpeI/HindIII double digestion sites from a previously described destination vector [CITATION]. TIP1g-GFP was generated by an LR reaction using a GW:GFP translation fusion destination vector [CITATION] and the TIP1g entry vector. ProE7:GFP-ROP2 was generated by a LR reaction using the ProE7:GFP-GW destination vector and the entry vector for ROP2 [CITATION]. All PCR amplifications used PhusionTM hot start high-fidelity DNA polymerase with the annealing temperature and extension times recommended by the manufacturer (Finnzyme). All entry vectors were sequenced and verified. The Bioneer PCR purification kit and the Bioneer Spin miniprep kit were used for PCR product recovery and plasmid DNA extraction, respectively. Primers are listed in (Additional file CITATION: Table S1). In the presence of 2-BP or DMSO, the region of root growth and root hair expansion was 1–1.5 mm distal from the primary root tip of 4 DAG seedlings and was thus chosen for length and width measurements. Images of that region were taken from individual seedlings using an Axio Observer A1 equipped with a CCD camera (Zeiss). Quantification of root hair length and width was performed according to previous descriptions [CITATION] using ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). Stock solutions of various inhibitors (Sigma) were prepared using DMSO as the solvent at the following concentrations: 50 mM 2-BP, 35 mM BFA, 20 mM CHX and 4 mM FM4-64. Stock solutions were diluted and added to 1/2 MS at designated final concentrations, i.e. 10–50 μM 2-BP, 50 μM BFA, 50 μM CHX, and 4 μM FM4-64. DMSO was similarly diluted for the controls. All experiments were repeated at least three times. Images and movies shown are representative of approximately 18–30 root hairs. Fluorescent images were captured using a Leica TCS SP5II confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica, Wetzlar, Germany) with a Plan-Neofluar 40×/1.3NA oil DIC objective or 63×/1.45NA oil DIC objectives. GFP-RFP double-labeled plant materials were captured alternately using line switching with the multi-track function (488 nm for GFP and 545 nm for RFP). Fluorescence was detected using a 505- to 550-nm band-pass filter for GFP and a 575- to 650-nm band-pass filter for RFP. YFP-RFP double-labeled plant materials were captured alternately using line switching with the multi-track function (514 nm for YFP and 545 nm for RFP). Fluorescence was detected using a 530- to 580-nm band-pass filter for YFP and a 575- to 650-nm band-pass filter for RFP. Post-acquisition image processing was performed with the LAS AF Lite image processing software (Leica). For quantification of PIP2-(Cyt/PM), ROP2-(Cyt/PM), and CBL2-(Tonoplast/Cyt), regions of interest (ROIs) of same sizes were designated at the PM, the cytoplasm or the tonoplast. Average signal intensity at ROIs was measured using ImageJ and ratio of the cytoplasm to the PM (for PIP2), the PM to the cytoplasm (for ROP2) or the tonoplast to the cytoplasm (for CBL2) was calculated. All vacuolated areas were excluded from the cytoplasm ROI. Arabidopsis Genome Initiative locus identifiers for the genes mentioned in this article are: At2g40990 for PAT2; At5g05070 for PAT3; At3g56930 for PAT4; At3g48760 for PAT5; At5g41060 for PAT6; At3g26935 for PAT7; At4g24630 for PAT8; At5g50020 for PAT9; At3g51390 for PAT10; At4g22750 for PAT13; At3g60800 for PAT14; At5g04270 for PAT15; At3g09320 for PAT16; At3g04970 for PAT17; At4g01730 for PAT18; At3g22180 for PAT20; At2g33640 for PAT21; At1g69420 for PAT22; At5g20350 for TIP1/PAT24; At5g55990 for CBL2; At1g12560 for EXP7; At1g20090 for ROP2; and At4g39990 for RabA4b.
