!~ABS~! • We identified thioredoxin m2 (Trx m2) as an interactor of Arabidopsis VDAC3. • We localized the interaction between AtTrx m2 and AtVDAC3 to mitochondria. • Under NaCl stress, AtVDAC3 overexpression inhibited growth and increased H2O2. • AtTrx m2 overexpression conferred resistance to NaCl stress and reduced H2O2. We identified thioredoxin m2 (Trx m2) as an interactor of Arabidopsis VDAC3. We localized the interaction between AtTrx m2 and AtVDAC3 to mitochondria. Under NaCl stress, AtVDAC3 overexpression inhibited growth and increased H2O2. AtTrx m2 overexpression conferred resistance to NaCl stress and reduced H2O2.
!~RES~! Interactions between proteins or between proteins and nucleic acids are the basis of many biological functions. To fully understand the function of AtVDAC3 protein, we searched for its interacting partners. With this goal in mind, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen using AtVDAC3 as the bait protein. The results of the screen revealed the thioredoxin protein AtTrx m2 (At4g03520). When grown on SD/–Leu/–Trp/–His/–Ade+AbA+X-α-Gal medium, yeast cells from the Y2H screen formed a blue colony only when both AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 were present, but not when either was absent, indicating that AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 are capable of interaction (CITATION a). To determine whether other members of the Arabidopsis VDAC family interact with AtTrx m2, we subjected AtVDAC1, AtVDAC2, and AtVDAC4 to the Y2H assay. Our results showed that none of the three proteins resulted in characteristic blue colonies when co-transformed yeast grown on selective medium (CITATIONb). These results indicate that, of the AtVDAC proteins, only AtVDAC3 specifically interacts with AtTrx m2 in the yeast cells examined here. A GST pull-down assay confirmed the interaction in vitro between AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2. The anti-His antibody detected His-AtVDAC3 signals only when both AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 were present (CITATIONc), indicating that AtVDAC3 is able to interact with AtTrx m2 in vitro. The His-AtVDAC3 signals could not be detected when the pull-down was performed for GST and His-AtVDAC3 (CITATIONc), indicating that the refolded His-AtVDAC3 protein could not bind with the GST tag. The interaction between AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 was verified in vivo by BiFC assay in tobacco BY2 cells. GFP fluorescence was detected in the mitochondria of BY2 protoplasts transformed with the construct pair AtTrx m2-GFPN and AtVDAC3-GFPC (CITATIONd), consistent with the subcellular localization of AtVDAC3-GFP in BY2 cells (CITATION a). These results demonstrate that AtVDAC3 interacts with AtTrx m2 in mitochondria in vivo. Although AtTrx m2 is a chloroplast protein (CITATIONb), the localization of AtTrx m2 in cells appears to be altered when it interacts with other proteins. AtTrx m2 has been reported to interact with Arabidopsis glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase 4 (G6PD4) and 6-phosphogluconolactonase 3 (PGL3) in the cytosol CITATION. To elucidate the functions of AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2, we examined their expression profiles in greater detail. CITATION showed the transcript levels of AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 in various tissues and under abiotic stress conditions, determined by qRT-PCR. Accumulation of both AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 mRNA was observed in all tissues studied; these were the highest in roots and flowers, respectively (CITATIONa). For both AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 transcripts, the lowest levels were detected in stems and senescent leaves. A significant difference in tissue-specific expression patterns between AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 was noted: AtVDAC3 mRNA was abundant in roots but low in leaves, while AtTrx m2 mRNA exhibited the opposite pattern, being highly expressed in young and mature leaves. These observations of AtTrx m2 expression are consistent with reports that most plastidic thioredoxins (Trxs) are preferentially expressed in leaves in response to light CITATION and that AtTrx m2 is mainly localized in chloroplasts. qRT PCR showed that AtTrx m2 was also more abundantly expressed in leaves and young seedlings CITATION, and fluorescence from the preprotein of AtTrx m2 fused with GFP was observed within plastids in Arabidopsis cell protoplasts CITATION. Previous studies examined the expression of both VDAC CITATION and Trxs CITATION genes in response to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. In this study, we also measured the induced expression of AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 in response to abiotic stress. CITATIONb showed that both AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 were up-regulated by exposure to 100mM NaCl, 200mM mannitol, and 10mM H2O2, indicating that AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 may be involved in theses stress responses. To analyze the function of AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 under oxidative stress in Arabidopsis, we generated transgenic plants over-expressing these genes. For each gene, three independent T2 generation transgenic lines were verified by northern blot analysis (CITATION): VDAC3#1, VDAC3#3, and VDAC3#13 and Trx m2#4, Trx m2#5, and Trx m2#9. We compared the phenotypes, fresh weights, and root lengths of WT and transgenic seedlings in the absence and presence of NaCl (CITATION a and b). Under control conditions (1/2MS medium), no differences between WT, AtVDAC3 OE transgenic lines (CITATIONa), and AtTrx m2 OE transgenic lines (CITATIONb) were observed. Exposure to NaCl inhibited the growth of WT seedlings (CITATION). However, in the presence of 150mM NaCl, the three AtVDAC3 OE transgenic lines showed greater inhibition of root and leaf growth than WT, and their fresh weights and root lengths were much lower than WT in this stress condition (CITATIONa). In contrast, in the presence of 175mM NaCl, growth of the AtTrx m2 OE transgenic lines was not as severely inhibited as that of WT. In this condition, the fresh weights and root lengths of AtTrx m2 OE transgenic lines were considerably higher than those of WT plants (CITATIONb). When plants are exposed to oxidative stress, including NaCl stress, the production of ROS such as hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and superoxide anion (O2 −) increases, injuring the plant cells CITATION. VDACs are involved in O2 − release and NADH oxidation, which may lead to ROS detoxification CITATION. H2O2 accumulation has been observed in leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana overexpressing VDAC, but is inhibited in VDACs-silenced N. benthamiana during avirulent pathogen infections CITATION. H2O2 accumulation is also inhibited in vdac1-knockout Arabidopsis CITATION. Previous studies have also shown thioredoxins to be key actors in plant tolerance and response to oxidative stress CITATION. The leaves of TRX-F/TRX-M silenced pea plants accumulate higher levels of O2 − and H2O2, confirming that Trx genes not only regulate photosynthesis and chlorophyll synthesis, but are involved in ROS metabolism CITATION. Therefore, we assumed that over-expression of AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 might also disturb the metabolic balance of ROS in Arabidopsis. NBT staining demonstrated that treatment with NaCl induced the accumulation of O2 − in the leaves of AtVDAC3 OE and AtTrx m2 OE transgenic lines and WT plants (CITATIONc). In the presence of 100mM NaCl, the accumulation of O2 − in the leaves of AtVDAC3 OE transgenic lines was indistinguishable from that of WT plants. However, less O2 − accumulated in the leaves of AtTrx m2 OE transgenic lines than WT plants (CITATIONc). Similar results were obtained for measurements of H2O2 content. As shown in CITATIONd, under NaCl stress, H2O2 accumulation in AtVDAC3 OE transgenic lines was higher than in WT plants. In contrast, under both control and NaCl stress conditions, AtTrx m2 OE transgenic lines accumulated lower levels of H2O2 than WT plants (CITATIONd). These results suggest that AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 are involved in ROS signals in plants and they play opposite roles in response to NaCl stress. Thioredoxins are known to serve as electron donors for cysteine-containing proteins, and thereby contribute to the reduction of their disulfide bonds CITATION. In Arabidopsis, four Trx m members (Trx m1–Trx m4) were found in chloroplasts CITATION. With the exception of Trx m3, the capacity of these thioredoxin proteins to reduce 2-Cys peroxiredoxin (Prx) was reasonably-efficient in vitro CITATION. Thioredoxins are assumed to prevent oxidative damage by providing reducing power to target proteins, modulating the activity of enzymes that directly scavenging ROS, or controlling protein redox status in oxidative stress-linked signaling pathways CITATION. Tobacco plants (Nicotiana tabacum L.) overexpressing plastidial m-type Trx were more tolerant than the WT when exposed to oxidative stress conditions generated by methyl viologen, and specifically displayed an increased activity of methionine sulfoxide reductases, which repaired damaged proteins by regenerating methionine from oxidized methionine CITATION. The Trx m from N. tabacum also exhibited chaperone function upon the imposition of oxidative stress, which could facilitate the reactivation of the cysteine-free form of chemically denatured G6PD (foldase chaperone activity) and prevent heat-induced malate dehydrogenase aggregation (holdase chaperone activity) in vitro CITATION. In the present study, we found that Trx m2 from Arabidopsis could enhance transgenic plant tolerance and reduce ROS accumulation under NaCl stress (Figs. CITATIONb and CITATIONb –d). A previous study reported that AtTrx m2 could complement the H2O2-sensitive phenotype of thioredoxin-deficient yeast cells CITATION. Furthermore, AtTrx m2 was also shown to participate in the oxidative pentose-phosphate pathway (OPPP) by influencing the dual-targeting of G6PD and PGL3 CITATION, and the activity of G6PD1 was regulated by the Arabidopsis m-type thioredoxins in a redox-dependent manner in vitro CITATION. These results indicate the importance of AtTrx m2 in carbon metabolism and oxidative stress defenses. VDACs may impact cellular redox metabolism via fluxes of ions and metabolites or NADH oxidation, however, the mechanisms by which VDACs contribute to plant defense are still unclear CITATION. In the present study, AtVDAC3 was shown to be involved in the response to NaCl stress, and in ROS production induced by NaCl stress (CITATIONa, c and d). Nevertheless, the mechanism underlying the regulation of ROS production by VDACs is still unknown. The production of O2 − from rat heart mitochondria was inhibited after the closure of VDACs with a specific inhibitor, indicating that the state of VDACs could influence the release of O2 − from mitochondria to the cytosol CITATION. Therefore, the accumulation of ROS in transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing-AtVDAC3 under NaCl stress might be attributed to the excessive opening of AtVDAC3 channel. In this study, we confirmed the interaction between AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 in the mitochondria, and both proteins were shown to affect ROS production induced by NaCl stress. However, our data could not explain the mechanism and function of the interaction between AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2. The interaction between VDAC and certain other proteins could change the state of channels. For example, in response to an apoptotic signal, recombinant Bcl-xL from human was shown to maintain metabolite exchange across the outer mitochondrial membrane by inhibiting VDAC closure CITATION. Therefore, we speculate that AtTrx m2 might maintain the closure of AtVDAC3 channel via an interaction under oxidizing conditions, which could reduce the generation of ROS.
!~MM~! For yeast two-hybrid assays, the open reading frame (ORF) of AtVDAC3 was amplified using primers VDAC3-Y2H-F and VDAC3-Y2H-R (all primers used in this study are listed in CITATION). The PCR product was cloned into the pGBKT7 vector to generate pGBKT7-AtVDAC3. We searched for candidate interaction partners of AtVDAC3 by screening the Arabidopsis cDNA library (Mate & Plate™ Library—Universal Arabidopsis) with the Matchmaker™ Gold Yeast Two-Hybrid System, as described by the manufacturer (Clontech). Plasmids containing cDNA of putative AtVDAC3-interacting proteins were isolated from the blue colonies selected on SD/–Leu/–Trp/–His/–Ade+AbA+X-α-Gal medium, and cDNAs were sequenced. One cDNA of the identified AtVDAC3-interacting protein, AtTrx m2, was cloned. To verify the results of Y2H screen, AtVDAC3 was digested from pGBKT7-AtVDAC3 and cloned into the pGADT7 vector. The ORF of AtTrx m2 was amplified with primers Trx m2-Y2H-F and Trx m2-Y2H-R and the PCR product was cloned into the pGBKT7 vector. The constructed vectors, pGADT7-AtVDAC3 and pGBKT7-AtTrx m2, were co-transformed into the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y2HGold and yeast culture was performed as described in CITATION. To examine interactions between other proteins of the AtVDAC family and AtTrx m2, the ORFs of AtVDAC1, AtVDAC2, and AtVDAC4 was amplified using primer pairs VDAC1-Y2H-F and VDAC1-Y2H-R, VDAC2-Y2H-F and VDAC2-Y2H-R, and VDAC4-Y2H-F and VDAC4-Y2H-R, respectively. Insertion of the products into the pGADT7 vector produced pGADT7-AtVDAC1, pGADT7-AtVDAC2, and pGADT7-AtVDAC4. Each of these was co-transformed, along with pGBKT7-AtTrx m2, and yeast culture was performed as described in CITATION. For the in vitro pull-down assay of AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2, the ORF of each gene was amplified by PCR and the product was ligated into vectors to produce fusion proteins with polyhistidine and glutathione S-transferase, respectively. AtVDAC3 was amplified with primers VDAC3-His-F and VDAC3-His-R and the PCR product was cloned into the pQE30 vector in-frame to the C terminus of 6×His-tag to generate pQE30-AtVDAC3. The resulting plasmid was transferred into Escherichia coli strain M15 to produce His-AtVDAC3 protein. AtTrx m2 was amplified with primers Trx m2-GST-F and Trx m2-GST-R and the PCR product was cloned into the pGEX-6p-3 vector to generate pGEX-6p-3-AtTrx m2, which was transferred into E. coli strain BL21 to produce GST-AtTrx m2 protein. The total GST-AtTrx m2 fusion protein was prepared from bacteria as described in CITATION. The His-AtVDAC3 protein was found in inclusion bodies, and was subjected to denaturing and refolding. The precipitate containing the His-AtVDAC3 protein was washed three times with washing buffer (50mM Tris–HCl, 10mM EDTA, 100mM NaCl, 0.5% Triton X-100; pH 8.0) and was then dissolved in an 8M urea solution (10mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.4) for 4h at room temperature. The supernatant containing the denatured His-AtVDAC3 protein was transferred to a dialysis bag and refolded at 4°C using a gradient of urea (6, 4, 2, 1, 0.5, and 0M) in 5mM Tris–HCl buffer, pH 7.4. Dialysis with each concentration in the urea gradient (starting with the 6M urea buffer) was conducted for 12h. After the final dialysis with 0M urea buffer, the soluble protein centrifuged from the dialysis bag was the refolded His-AtVDAC3 protein. A GST pull-down assay was conducted as described in CITATION. Briefly, crude extract of GST-AtTrx m2 fusion protein was bound to Glutathione Sepharose 4 Fast Flow (GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The resin was washed four times with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and resuspended in an extract solution containing His-AtVDAC3. After incubation with gentle shaking at room temperature for 60min, the bound proteins were eluted from resin with 20mM reduced glutathione at room temperature. The elution, containing complexed GST-AtTrx m2 fusion protein and His-AtVDAC3 fusion protein, was analyzed by immunoblotting. A pull-down assay of GST protein and His-AtVDAC3 was performed as a negative control. Signals were detected with CDP-Star (Tropix) using a Luminescent Image Analyzer LAS-4000 (Fujifilm, Japan). The vector for BiFC was constructed by replacing the GFP in pBS-35S-GFP with the N-terminus (154 aa) or C-terminus (80 aa) of the mVenus plasmid, yielding pBS-35S: VN154 and pBS-35S: VC80, respectively CITATION. The ORF of AtVDAC3 was amplified with primers VDAC3-GFP-F and VDAC3-GFP-R and cloned into pBS-35S: VC80, generating pBS-35S: AtVDAC3-VC80 (AtVDAC3-GFPC). The ORF of AtTrx m2 was amplified with primers Trx m2-GFP-F and Trx m2-GFP-R and cloned into pBS-35S: VN154, generating pBS-35S: AtTrx m2-VN154 (AtTrx m2-GFPN). The BiFC assay in BY2 protoplasts was performed according to the Arabidopsis protoplast transformation method, with some modifications CITATION. Tobacco BY2 cells were cultured in MS media containing 1mg/mL 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2, 4-D) at 22°C in darkness CITATION and the protoplasts were prepared after 2–3h digestion at room temperature in darkness with enzyme solution containing 2% (wt/vol) Cellulase R10 and 0.4% (wt/vol) Macerozyme R10. The protoplast-containing enzyme solution was filtered through a 75-μm nylon mesh wetted with W5 solution (154mM NaCl, 125mM CaCl2, 5mM KCl, 2mM MES, pH 5.8). After centrifugation, the pellet was washed three times in W5. After counting the cells under a microscope (×100) using a hemocytometer, the protoplast pellet was resuspended at 2×105 cells/mL in W5 solution. The plasmids AtTrx m2-GFPN and AtVDAC3-GFPC (2.5μg each) were co-expressed in BY2 protoplasts. To the plasmid mixture, 5μL salmon sperm DNA (10mg/mL), 100μL protoplasts (2×104 protoplasts), and 110μL 35% PEG-calcium transfection solution were added and the resulting transfection mixture was agitated gently. The transfection mixture was incubated at room temperature for up to 15min and then diluted with 440μL W5 solution. Protoplasts were centrifuged and resuspended gently with 500μL W1 solution (0.5M mannitol, 20mM KCl, 4mM MES, pH5.7) in each well of a 12-well tissue culture plate. After protoplasts were incubated at 22°C for 16 to 20h in darkness, fluorescence was observed. Mitochondria were visualized by staining with 100nM MitoTracker Red (M7513, Molecular Probes) for 10min at 25°C according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Representative images were obtained using the Axio Vision fluorescent microscopy system (Axio Imager. Z2, Zeiss, Germany). To construct GFP fusions, AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 ORFs were moved from the vectors constructed for the BiFC assay by digest with Kpn I and Spe I and cloned into pBI121-GFP. pBI121-AtVDAC3-GFP was transformed into BY2 protoplasts. pBI121-GFP (control) and pBI121-AtTrx m2-GFP were stably introduced into Arabidopsis via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated floral dip CITATION. Protoplasts were prepared from transgenic leaves as described in CITATION. For AtVDAC3-GFP protoplasts, mitochondria were stained with MitoTracker Red. Fluorescence was observed using the Axio Vision fluorescent microscopy system (Axio Imager. Z2, Zeiss, Germany). We assayed gene expression in A. thaliana ecotype Columbia-0 (Col-0) tissues, sampling roots, stems, leaves, flowers, and young (green) siliques. Leaves were sampled at different stages (young leaves, 20d; mature leaves, 40d; senescent leaves, 60d). To examine expression under stress treatments, 3-week-old seedlings grown in 1/2 MS plates at 22°C under 16-h light/8-h dark condition were transferred to 1/2 MS medium supplemented with one of the following: 100mM NaCl, 200mM mannitol, or 10mM H2O2. The seedlings were then incubated for 6, 12, or 24h. As a control for each treatment, we used 1/2 MS medium with no supplement. Roots and leaves were sampled separately. Total RNA was isolated using a plant RNA extraction kit (YPH-Bio) and cDNA was synthesized from 500ng of the total RNA with PrimeScript Reverse Transcriptase (Takara Bio) using an oligo (dT) primer, according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The reaction mixtures were diluted 10 times with distilled water and used as templates for quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR), performed with the following gene-specific primers: AtVDAC3: VDAC3-qF and VDAC3-qR; AtTrx m2: Trx m2-qF and Trx m2-qR; AtActin2: Actin2-qF and Actin2-qR. cDNA was amplified using TransStart Top Green qPCR SuperMix (TransGen Biotech) on a Stratagene Mx3000P QCR system (Agilent Technologies, USA). Relative expression levels were calculated by the comparative CT method, using the Actin2 gene as an internal control. To make plant expression constructs, the ORF of AtVDAC3 was amplified with primers VDAC3-OE-F and VDAC3-OE-R and cloned into the pBI121 vector, generating pBI121-AtVDAC3. The ORF of AtTrx m2 was amplified with primers Trx m2-OE-F and Trx m2-OE-R and cloned into the pBI121 vector, generating pBI121-AtTrx m2. Each construct was stably introduced into Arabidopsis via A. tumefaciens-mediated floral dip CITATION. The T2 generation seedlings of AtVDAC3 and AtTrx m2 transgenic plants were identified by northern hybridization. The leaves of 3-week-old transgenic plants were floated on 1/2MS medium containing 100mM NaCl for 4h at 22°C, and the in situ accumulation of O2 − was determined using histochemical staining with nitroblue tetrazolium, as described in CITATION. In addition, 14-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings were treated with 175mM NaCl for 24h at 22°C, and H2O2 levels were quantified by absorbance at a wavelength of 560nm using FeSO4 and xylenol orange as described in CITATION.
