!~ABS~! The plant hormone auxin is a key regulator of plant growth and development. Auxin levels are sensed and interpreted by distinct receptor systems that activate a broad range of cellular responses. The Auxin-Binding Protein1 (ABP1) that has been identified based on its ability to bind auxin with high affinity is a prime candidate for the extracellular receptor responsible for mediating a range of auxin effects, in particular, the fast non-transcriptional ones. Contradictory genetic studies suggested prominent or no importance of ABP1 in many developmental processes. However, how crucial the role of auxin binding to ABP1 is for its functions has not been addressed. Here, we show that the auxin-binding pocket of ABP1 is essential for its gain-of-function cellular and developmental roles. In total, 16 different abp1 mutants were prepared that possessed substitutions in the metal core or in the hydrophobic amino acids of the auxin-binding pocket as well as neutral mutations. Their analysis revealed that an intact auxin-binding pocket is a prerequisite for ABP1 to activate downstream components of the ABP1 signalling pathway, such as Rho of Plants (ROPs) and to mediate the clathrin association with membranes for endocytosis regulation. In planta analyses demonstrated the importance of the auxin binding pocket for all known ABP1-mediated postembryonic developmental processes, including morphology of leaf epidermal cells, root growth and root meristem activity, and vascular tissue differentiation. Taken together, these findings suggest that auxin binding to ABP1 is central to its function, supporting the role of ABP1 as auxin receptor.
!~RES~! The auxin-binding protein ABP1 was identified decades ago in different plant species (CITATION, CITATION) with subsequent characterization of its structure by crystallization and detection of the auxin-binding pocket (CITATION, CITATION). Nevertheless, little is known about the significance of the auxin binding for the cellular functions and developmental roles of ABP1. To address this question, a series of mutations were generated. Single amino acids important for the formation of the auxin-binding pocket (Fig. 1A) were mutated based on the known crystal structure (CITATION). Given the conserved stability of the β-barrel fold (CITATION) and the selected amino acid substitutions, the overall protein structure would probably not be compromised. As the metal core seems to be most important for the auxin binding (CITATION), two disrupting ABP1 variants, ABP1-H59A (ABP1-M1X) and ABP1-H59A/H61A (ABP1-M2X) were prepared (Fig. 1B). The mutation in the ABP1-M1X variant targets the same amino acid as that already described in the abp1-5 mutant allele (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Additionally, we mutagenized seven largely hydrophobic amino acids that play a role in the stabilization of the indole or aromatic rings of the auxin molecule. Seven single (R24K, L27V, Q48D, T56V, P57L, F148L and W152Y) and three double (R24K/L27V, T56V/P57L, and F148L/W152Y) mutants (Fig. 1B) were generated to evaluate their role in the ABP1 activity and to test the hypothesis that auxin binding is necessary for the ABP1 activity. As a negative control, four random amino acids outside the binding pocket were chosen and mutation variants were prepared (ABP1-V66A, ABP1-F92L, ABP1-P103L and ABP1-Q155D). These abp1 mutant variants were then evaluated for their impact on the cellular and developmental roles of ABP1. Next, we tested the ability of the auxin-binding pocket mutants to activate downstream signalling processes. As the Rho GTPases, ROP2 and ROP6, have been shown to be activated within a few minutes by the ABP1-dependent auxin signalling (CITATION) leading to translocation of the interacting partners, RIC4 and RIC1, from the cytosol to the PM, Arabidopsis protoplasts were cotransfected with 35S::RIC4-RFP and with the corresponding 35S::ABP1-GFP constructs possessing different mutations. Of the protoplasts transfected with the wild-type ABP1, 90% showed no RIC4 activation, manifested by the RFP signal remaining predominantly intracellular. However, after short auxin treatment (5min with 1 μM NAA), RIC4 was activated and translocated to the PM (CITATION) (Fig. 2A, B, E). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In the abp1 auxin binding mutant variants, RIC4 activation was highly reduced, particularly in the ABP1-M1X and ABP1-M2X variants, in which up to 45% and 70% of the cells for M1X and M2X, respectively, still had a RIC4 cytosolic localization (Fig. 2C, D, E). In the other abp1 mutant variants with mutations in hydrophobic amino acids that are responsible for the interaction with indole or aromatic rings of auxin molecules, we observed a slight increase of 20% in the proportion of cells with a cytosolic RIC4 localization, but never as high as in ABP1-M1X or ABP1-M2X (Fig. 2F, G, H). The neutral mutant variants ABP1-V66A, ABP1-F92L, ABP1-P103L, and ABP1-Q155D did not differ in the RIC4 translocation when compared to wild-type ABP1 protein. Hence, the mutations in the auxin-binding pocket interfere with the ABP1 capability to activate/translocate the RIC4 protein. The most important amino acid residues are those that reside in the metal core. Seven mostly hydrophobic amino acids interacting with indole or aromatic rings of auxin molecules play a rather minor role in this process. Regulation of the clathrin-mediated endocytosis is one of the rapid auxin effects ascribed to the ABP1 function (CITATION; CITATION). Auxin, via ABP1, inhibits endocytosis of some PM-residing proteins, including internalization of PIN-FORMED (PIN) auxin efflux carriers (CITATION). By this mechanism, auxin is supposed to regulate its own transport out of cells (CITATION). For evaluation of the effect of the abp1 auxin binding mutations on PIN internalization, we cotransfected Bright Yellow 2 (BY-2) tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) suspension-cultured cells with PIN1 (35S:PIN1-RFP) together with the 35S::ABP1-GFP constructs containing different mutations, and analysed the amount of cells showing PIN1 internalization. Wild-type ABP1 promotes endocytosis of PIN1 from the PM and, consistently, more than 60% of cells had severely internalized PIN1. This process was largely inhibited by addition of auxin (10 μM NAA), when over 80% of cells showed no or very weak internalization (Fig. 3C, D, G). When BY-2 cells were cotransfected with the ABP1-M2X construct, the PIN1-RFP internalization was promoted to the same extent as with wild-type ABP1 construct, however, auxin treatment was completely ineffective in inhibiting PIN1 internalization (Fig. 3E–G). Similarly, we analysed other abp1 variants such as ABP1-M1X or versions bearing mutations in the hydrophobic residues. All these mutant variants promoted PIN1 internalization but showed decreased sensitivity to the inhibitory auxin effect, albeit not complete auxin resistance as observed for the ABP1-M2X construct (Supplementary Fig. S1A, B, D). In contrast, none of the neutral mutations outside the binding pocket showed changes in the PIN1 internalization rate after auxin treatment when compared to the control (Supplementary Fig. S1A, C, E). Notably, only a very small amount of PIN1-RFP was internalized in the absence of the ABP1 cotransfection suggesting the importance of both auxin-bound and auxin-unbound ABP1 for endocytosis (Fig. 3A, B, G). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Altogether, the ABP1 with or without the intact auxin-binding pocket was crucial for PIN internalization but the auxin-mediated inhibitory effect on this process required the intact auxin-binding pocket, the metal core being the most critical part. Next we planned to express the abp1 mutant variants in Arabidopsis to complement the abp1-1 knockout mutant allele, which has been reported to cause slow proliferation, reduced cell elongation, cell division and embryo lethality (CITATION). The phenotypes of the abp1-1 mutant were reported to be rescued by the 35S::ABP1 overexpression construct. We used the same approach and via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation we introduced several different constructs into the abp1/ABP1 heterozygous mutant. However, we did not achieve an abp1-1 complementation with any of our constructs, i.e. 35S::ABP1, 35S::ABP1-GFP, 35S::ABP1-M2X or 35S::ABP1-GFP-M2X, since by genotyping we still confirmed the presence of a functional wild-type ABP1 allele in all progenies (Supplementary Fig. S2). In our subsequent attempt, the native ABP1 promoter was used to bring the expression to a level similar to that in planta. We used two versions of the native promoter, a long one (1585bp; adapted from CITATION) and a short one (708bp, until the start codon of the next gene). We screened more than three independent lines with an expression lower than, higher than, or equal to that of the wild-type. None of these variants (with or without a tag or mutation) were able to rescue the mutant phenotypes of the abp1-1 allele. The same negative result was observed when the native promoter with the genomic ABP1 sequence and the 3′-untranslated region were cloned together in one piece and transformed into the abp1/ABP1 heterozygous line (Supplementary Fig. S2). Taken together, we were unable to complement the abp1-1 phenotypes with any prepared construct, which precluded us to analyse the importance of auxin-binding pocket for the ABP1 developmental roles in planta in the absence of the wild-type ABP1 allele. To test the effect of auxin-binding mutations on endocytosis in Arabidopsis, we introduced all the above-mentioned constructs into the Arabidopsis Col-0 background via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Most experiments were carried out with the ABP1-M2X overexpression line because this construct showed the most severe auxin insensitivity in protoplast and BY-2 assays. Three independent lines with expression levels similar to that of 35S::ABP1 (CITATION) were chosen for the analysis. As a control, the 35S::ABP1 line (CITATION; CITATION) was used with the corresponding ABP1 expression level with phenotypes similar to the 35S::ABP1-GFP line (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The fungal toxin Brefeldin A (BFA) is a useful tool to investigate PIN trafficking and endocytosis. BFA treatments lead to the accumulation of internalized PIN proteins in pronounced intracellular aggregates—so-called BFA bodies, because BFA inhibits preferentially the recycling of PIN proteins to the PM (CITATION; CITATION). PIN protein immunodetection in the wild-type treated with 25 μM BFA led to accumulation of PIN proteins in BFA bodies. Auxin can inhibit this internalization and stabilizes PIN proteins at the PM (CITATION) (Fig. 4A, D, G). In 35S::ABP1 roots, the BFA-induced PIN internalization was slightly higher than of the wild-type. This difference was less pronounced as compared to previous work (CITATION) because a different quantification method was used. Instead of counting the number of BFA bodies per cell (CITATION), the signal at the PM and in the intracellular part was measured. As shown before (CITATION), internalization of PINs to BFA bodies was almost completely inhibited by auxin (10 μM NAA) in both the wild-type and the 35S::ABP1 line (Fig. 4B, E, G). In contrast, the inhibitory effect of auxin on the BFA body formation was much less pronounced in the 35S::ABP1-M2X line, as manifested by the presence of pronounced PIN1-containing BFA bodies (Fig. 4D, F, G). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In addition, we tested PEO-IAA (CITATION), an auxin analogue that inhibits endocytosis, but does not activate auxin-mediated transcriptional responses (CITATION). PIN1 immunodetection in the wild-type and 35S::ABP1 overexpression seedlings cotreated with PEO-IAA and BFA inhibited PIN1 internalization similarly to auxin (Supplementary Fig. S3A, B, G). In contrast, 35S::ABP1-M2X seedlings showed a persistent presence of BFA bodies after cotreatment with PEO-IAA and BFA (Supplementary Fig. S3C, G). Similar observations were made when seedlings were cotreated with BFA and auxinole (CITATION), which is an auxin analogue with structure and function similar to those of PEO-IAA (Supplementary Fig. S3D–H). These results revealed that wild-type plants expressing 35S::ABP1-M2X mutant variant are much less sensitive to the inhibitory effect of auxin and its analogues on PIN internalization. PIN proteins are internalized by the endocytic machinery that involves the coating protein clathrin (CITATION). ABP1 acts as a positive regulator in clathrin recruitment and association with the PM and thus promotes endocytosis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). We investigated the auxin effect on levels of the membrane-associated clathrin heavy chains (CHCs) by using anti-CHC antibodies. In the wild-type, trans-Golgi network/early endosomes (TGN/EEs) and PM-associated CHC signals increased after auxin treatment (10 μM NAA). The intensity of the CHC signal at the PM and TGN/EE was 50% higher than that of the mock controls (Fig. 4H, K, N). Interestingly, the CHC signal at the PM and TGN/EE increased in the 35S::ABP1 overexpression line already without auxin treatment and the increase after the auxin treatment was not as pronounced as in the wild-type (Fig. 4I, L, N). In contrast, in the ABP1-M2X overexpression line, the CHC signal did not increase and the line was also resistant to auxin treatments (Fig. 4J, M, N). Altogether, our results suggest that ABP1 regulates the clathrin heavy chain association with the PM and TGN/EEs and that the ABP1 auxin-binding site is important for this role. Another prominent cellular auxin effect is the change in PIN polarity (CITATION) that seems to require both TIR1 and ABP1 signalling (CITATION) as manifested by the basal-to-outer lateral relocation of PIN2 in the cortex and basal-to-inner lateral relocation of PIN1 in the endodermis of Arabidopsis roots after auxin treatment (10 μM NAA) (CITATION). In the wild-type, lateralization of PIN proteins occurred after 4h of auxin treatment; the lateral-to-basal signal ratio of PIN1 in endodermis increased up to 50% and up to 25% for PIN2 in the cortical cell layer (Fig. 5A, D, G, H). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The ABP1 involvement is noticeable by the PIN lateralization in the ABP1 overexpression line already without any auxin treatment (CITATION). This phenotype could not be enhanced by additional auxin treatments (Fig. 5B, E, G, H). In contrast, overexpression of ABP1-M2X did not cause any PIN lateralization that occurred only after auxin treatment (Fig. 5C, F, G, H), possibly due to the presence of the wild-type ABP1 allele in the Col-0 background and also due to the involvement of the second auxin signalling pathway SCFTIR1 (CITATION). Hence, the auxin-mediated PIN polarization requires ABP1, and the ability of auxin to bind the ABP1 molecule is a crucial part of this regulation. It has been proposed that ABP1 takes part in many important developmental processes (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). Among others, it mediates the auxin-dependent pavement cell interdigitation (CITATION). The number of lobes in pavement cells increased up to 25% after auxin treatment (20nM NAA) in the wild-type or in seedlings of the 35S::ABP1 overexpression line. In contrast, in the abp1 auxin-binding mutant (ABP1-M2X), the number of lobes in pavement cells did not change even after auxin treatment (Fig. 6A–E). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Seedlings overexpressing the wild-type ABP1 had a reduced root length, decreased root meristem size, increased lateral root number, and defects in cotyledon vasculature when compared to the wild-type (Fig. 6F–M). These lines also showed a decrease in apical dominance, resulting in more branching. All these aberrant phenotypes were significantly reduced in the 35S::ABP1-M2X overexpression lines. Altogether, these observations suggest that the ABP1 auxin-binding pocket is crucial for performing its gain-of-function developmental roles.
!~MM~! Seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heyhn., accession Columbia (Col-0), were vernalized for 2 d in the dark at 4°C and grown on vertical half-strength Murashige and Skoog (0.5 MS) plates containing with 1% sucrose and 0.8% agar at 18°C in a 16h light/8h dark photoperiod for 5 d. Liquid 0.5 MS medium was used for all chemical treatments. The transgenic lines and constructs used have been described previously: 35S::ABP1-GFP construct (CITATION), 35S::ABP1 line (CITATION), abp1-1 heterozygous mutant line (CITATION), and 35S::PIN1-RFP construct (CITATION). Five-day-old seedlings were incubated with the following chemicals: 25 μM BFA dissolved in DMSO (Sigma-Aldrich) for 90min, 10 μM NAA dissolved in DMSO (Sigma-Aldrich) for 30min for pretreatments and with 25 μM BFA/10 μM NAA for 90min for cotreatments, 50 μM PEO-IAA dissolved in DMSO for 30min (CITATION) for pretreatments and 25 μM BFA/50 μM PEO-IAA for 90min for cotreatments, 10 μM auxinole dissolved in DMSO for 30min (CITATION) for pretreatments and 25 μM BFA/10 μM auxinole for 90min for cotreatments, and 10 μM NAA for 4h. In control treatments, equal amounts of solvent were used. The 35S::ABP1g, shortABP1::ABP1g, longABP1::ABP1g, and longABP1::ABP1g::ABP1-3’UTR plasmids were constructed with the Gateway cloning technology (www.invitrogen.com). Genomic fragments of the ABP1 gene were cloned into the donor vector pDONR221 and the shortABP1 promoter (708bp upstream of ATG) and longABP1 promoter (1585bp upstream of ATG; adapted from CITATION) were cloned into the pDONRP4P1r vector. The 35S::ABP1g construct was created by recombining ABP1 in pDONR221 into pB7GW2. The expression clones containing the native ABP1 promoter variants were generated by recombining these fragments into the expression vector pB7m24GW,3. 35S::RIC4-RFP was constructed by recombining the RIC4 genomic fragment from pDONR221 into the p2GWR7 destination vector. The ABP1-M1X and ABP1-M2X constructs were made by substituting the modified fragment by classical cloning via SacI and PasI in the 35S::ABP1, shortABP1::ABP1, longABP1::ABP1, longABP1::ABP1::ABP1-3’UTR, and 35S::ABP1GFP vectors. The mutations R59K, L62V, Q83D, T91V, P92L, F186L, W190Y, R59K/L62V, T91V/P92L, F186L/W190Y, V101A, F127L, P138L, and Q193D in ABP1 were done by site-direct mutagenesis PCR with modified primers. The resulting constructs were transformed into Arabidopsis (Col-0) and into abp1/ABP1 heterozygous plants by floral dipping in Agrobacterium tumefaciens liquid cultures. Transformants were selected on phosphinothricin-containing plates. From each construct, at least three independent lines with similar expression levels were chosen and analysed. All primers and prepared fragments used for cloning are summarized in Supplementary Table S1. The ABP1 T-DNA insertion line was genotyped with the right border primer for the Wisconsin T-DNA lines in combination with the ABP1-specific primers (Supplementary Table S1). To test the ABP1 gene expression level in the T-DNA insertion lines and other transformants, qRT-PCR was performed. Five-day-old seedlings were harvested, RNA extracted, and cDNA synthesized. Of a 1:10 cDNA dilution, 5 µl was used in a 20 μl qRT-PCR reaction containing 1× DyNAmoTM SYBR® Green Mastermix (FINNZYMES). Real-time PCR reactions were run in triplicate. Gene expression was calculated with the 2-ΔΔCT method (CITATION). Tubulin was used as endogenous control for the relative quantification of the ABP1 gene expression. Primers used for qRT-PCR are summarized in Supplementary Table S1. Arabidopsis roots were analysed by immunofluorescence as described in CITATION. The anti-PIN1 antibody (1:1000) (CITATION), the anti-PIN2 antibody (1:1000) (CITATION), and the anti-CHC antibody (1:400) (Agrisera) were used as well as the fluorochrome-conjugated secondary antibodies Alexa488 and the anti-rabbit-Cy3 (1:600) (Dianova). Live-cell microscopy was done on a Zeiss 710 confocal microscope and pictures were analysed by ImageJ (ImageJ; National Institutes of Health; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij). BFA bodies and CHC were quantified by measuring the PM and intracellular signal ratio and lateralization by measuring the signal on the basal or apical membranes and by comparing it to the signal on lateral membranes. Ten millilitres from 3-day-old liquid cell culture, was harvested on filter paper by vacuum filtration and kept on solid BY-2 medium. The cells were transformed via particle bombardment with a PDS-1000/He biolistic system (Biorad) according to the manufacturer’s recommendations. To coat the gold particles with DNA, 2ml of plasmid DNA (0.05mg/ml of each to be transformed construct) was added to 6.25ml of 1.6 mm-diameter gold particles and the suspension was supplemented with 2.5ml spermidine (0.1M stock solution) and 6.25ml CaCl2 (2.5M stock solution). The particles were pelleted by centrifugation and washed twice with 70% and 100% ethanol. The pellet was suspended in 10ml of 100% ethanol. Cells were bombarded under a pressure of 1100 psi with the Biolistic PDS-1000/He Particle Delivery System (Bio-Rad). After transformation, 1ml of auxin-free medium (mock) or medium enriched with 10 μM NAA was added to the cells. The plates were sealed with parafilm and kept in the dark for 18h at 25°C. Samples were imaged via confocal microscopy (Zeiss 710) and analysed as described (CITATION). Experiments were done in triplicate for all prepared constructs and each time between 15–20 cells were analysed. Cells were divided into three groups based on the number of intracellular particles containing PIN proteins: 0–3, ‘no internalization’; 4–10, ‘weak internalization’; >10, ‘severe internalization’. Root length, hypocotyl length and lateral root density were measured by the Java-based ImageJ application (National Institutes of Health; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij). At least 20 seedlings were measured in three independent experiments, giving the same statistically significant results. The statistical significance was evaluated with Student’s T-test. The pavement cell shape from Arabidopsis cotyledons was imaged directly on a confocal microscopy (Leica SP2) after the cotyledons had been treated with propidium iodide for visualization of the cell outline. At least 10 cotyledons and 30 cells from each were analysed from each line and the number of lobes and the cell size were measured in ImageJ. The experiment was repeated twice. Changes in the RFP-RIC4 localization to the PM were monitored in isolated protoplasts. Protoplasts were isolated from an Arabidopsis suspension culture (PSB-L) as described in CITATION. Four micrograms of the 35S::RFP-RIC4 construct, 35S::ABP1GFP, or particular abp1 mutant variant was introduced into protoplasts by PEG-mediated transformation (CITATION). Typically, ~70% of the protoplasts were transformed and cells showing both signals were imaged by a Zeiss 710 confocal microscope. Evaluation was done based on the localization of the RIC4-RFP signal, thus dividing cells into two groups with the signal either at the PM or in the cytosol. From each transfection, 10–15 cells showing both signals were evaluated and the experiment was repeated three times.
