!~ABS~! Fluorescence-based protein-protein interaction techniques are vital tools for understanding in vivo cellular functions on a mechanistic level. However, only under the condition of highly efficient (co)transformation and accumulation can techniques such as Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) realize their potential for providing highly accurate and quantitative interaction data. FRET as a fluorescence-based method unifies several advantages, such as measuring in an in vivo environment, real-time context, and the ability to include transient interactions as well as detecting the mere proximity of proteins. Here, we introduce a novel vector set that incorporates the benefit of the recombination-based 2in1 cloning system with the latest state-of-the-art fluorescent proteins for optimal coaccumulation and FRET output studies. We demonstrate its utility across a range of methods. Merging the 2in1 cloning system with new-generation FRET fluorophore pairs allows for enhanced detection, speeds up the preparation of clones, and enables colocalization studies and the identification of meaningful protein-protein interactions in vivo.
!~RES~! The 2in1 system makes use of the λ-phage recombination sites that are commercially exploited in the MultiSite Gateway system of Life Technologies (CITATION). The rationale behind the 2in1 approach was to establish two independent, functional expression cassettes on the same vector backbone while maintaining the ease of recombination-based cloning with two different positive selection markers. This strategy thus allows for simultaneous and directional insertion of two genes into two expression cassettes flanked by individual promoters and tags, which then are expressed from the same vector backbone (Fig. 1A). As constructed, one of the cassettes is a modified version of the classical Gateway cassette. It consists of the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase and the Control of Cell Death B (ccdB) gene flanked by attR1 and attR4 sites (as opposed to attR1 and attR2 in the classical Gateway cassette). The ccdB gene is toxic for most Escherichia coli cloning strains, thereby precluding nonrecombinant clones (CITATION). The second recombination cassette contains the lacZ expression cassette delimited by attR3 and attR2 sites on either side. Both cassettes allow directional and site-specific integration of genes of interest via recombination from the Gateway entry vector constructs pDONR221-P3P2 and pDONR221-P1P4. The vectors designed for this work (Fig. 1, B–D) gave recombination efficiencies comparable to previously published 2in1 vectors of the rBiFC set (CITATION). Vectors and constructs that are needed to perform 2in1 cloning are summarized in Table I. [[FIGURE]] Figure 2 shows the normalized absorbance and emission spectra, including the λ4-weighted spectral overlaps of mTRQ2-mVenus, monomeric enhanced green fluorescent protein (mEGFP)-mCherry, and mVenus-tagRFP pairs selected for the FRET 2in1 vectors. Exemplary pseudocolor images of the coexpression of nucleus-localized Basic Pentacysteine6 (BPC6), a GAGA motif-binding protein (CITATION), with itself were chosen for representation of the wavelength emission peaks of each FP (Fig. 2). Table II lists the crucial FRET-related spectral properties of the state-of-the-art FPs that were chosen. Particular attention is given to properties relevant for FRET-FLIM studies (see below), although the fluorophore pairs are also suitable for intensity-based FRET approaches and (co)localization studies. In terms of quantum yield and brightness, the donor chromophores mTRQ2 (CITATION), mEGFP (CITATION), and mVenus (CITATION) are the gold standards within their spectral ranges (Table II). These fluorophores also benefit from photostability, and their folding efficiency is among the highest of the latest generation of FPs (CITATION). Each donor can be excited with one of the three major argon laser wavelengths used in confocal microscopy, 458 nm (mTRQ2), 488 nm (mEGFP), and 514 nm (mVenus). Due to their excellent spectral overlap, mVenus, mCherry (CITATION), and tagRFP (CITATION) were chosen as FRET acceptors, respectively (Fig. 2). Each pair, namely mTRQ2-mVenus, mEGFP-mCherry, and mVenus-tagRFP, was used in generating four different vectors, thus allowing for the expression of all possible combinations of either N- or C-terminal FP fusions (Fig. 1, B–D). In addition, the chromophores chosen in this vector set are all monomeric, thereby avoiding dimerization or quenching due to fluorophore interaction (CITATION; CITATION). While the FRET pairs mEGFP-mCherry (CITATION) and mTRQ2-mVenus (CITATION) were demonstrated before (summarized by CITATION), to our knowledge, the pair mVenus-tagRFP has not been used previously. [[FIGURE]] A prerequisite for PPI analysis is information on subcellular (co)localization of the proteins of choice. In spite of the reservations associated with heterologous (over)expression of genes depleted of their regulatory sequences (promoter, untranslated regions, and introns), transient or stable coexpression of two genes from a 2in1 vector is a feasible and fast way to determine subcellular (co)localization. Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor proteins (SNAREs), which drive the final step in membrane fusion events, are often used as membrane markers due to their specific subcellular localization patterns. The plasma membrane (PM) SNARE Syntaxin of Plants121 (SYP121; CITATION), vesicle- and PM-localized Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein721 (VAMP721; CITATION), and endoplasmic reticulum-localized SNARE VAMP723 (CITATION) were used here to assess the vector potential for (co)localization studies. Figure 3 and Supplemental Figure S1 demonstrate the use of pFRETgc 2in1 vectors to determine and distinguish the subcellular localization of the aforementioned proteins while using different transformation procedures and hosts. Figure 3 depicts the spatial differences in subcellular localization of the SNARE proteins VAMP723 and SYP121 in transient transfection of Nicotiana benthamiana leaves (Fig. 3A), Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) leaf protoplasts (Fig. 3B), and stably transformed Arabidopsis Columbia-0 plants (Fig. 3C). In addition, Supplemental Figure S1 shows partial colocalization of SYP121 with VAMP721 in the PM while also highlighting vesicular structures that are solely tagged with GFP-VAMP721 in all three transformation procedures. Line histograms reveal the high spatial resolution providing information on each fusion protein’s subcellular (co)localization or its distinction. [[FIGURE]] Despite heterologous overexpression, all gene products localize to their previously suggested, native subcellular compartments (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). The vector set was primarily anticipated for transient studies in which the 35S promoter is still a powerful driver of expression despite its inherent silencing issues when used in stable transformants (CITATION). Nevertheless, the T1 generation of stably transformed Arabidopsis seedlings was analyzed: out of 74 Basta-resistant seedlings that were screened for fluorescence signals, 10% expressed both mEGFP-VAMP723 and mCherry-SYP121 (Fig. 3C). None of the analyzed transformants expressed only one of the two FPs, confirming an expected coexpression and, thus, cotransformation efficiency of 100%. Taken together, the FRET 2in1 vectors prove their feasibility to easily assess subcellular (co)localization in both transient and stable transformation. In the latter case, the vectors avoid the time-consuming step of sequential insertion either by crossing two individually transformed lines or the simultaneous cotransformation (and T-DNA integration) of the two individual plasmids using floral dip transformation, which has been shown previously to yield only between 8% and 34% (CITATION) cotransformants. Also, cosegregation excluded, the resulting heterozygous T1 lines will yield only 6.25% double homozygous T2 lines, as compared with 25% using one T-DNA (2in1 insertion). For (semi)quantitative FRET studies, especially when they are intensity based, the accumulation of equal amounts of donor and acceptor FP fusion proteins is often ideal. Yet, no expression system can guarantee a 1:1 expression ratio of fusion proteins. Posttranscriptional or posttranslational regulation is likely to alter the stoichiometry even when the identical promoter is used. Agroinfiltration has become a widely used technique for fast and reliable transient transformation of N. benthamiana leaves (CITATION). Many subcellular localization studies in transient N. benthamiana rely on coexpression of the protein of interest with a subcellular marker. While for colocalization, a 100% cotransformation efficiency is not crucial, for other methods, such as FRET, it is often best to have donor and acceptor fusion proteins in the same cell at nearly equal concentrations. The issue of cotransformation ratios was raised in the paragraph above regarding stable transformation. Generally, literature values vary between 10% and 60% cotransformation probability for transient transformation of Arabidopsis root explants (CITATION). In transiently transformed Arabidopsis seedlings using Agrobacterium tumefaciens, CITATION found a cotransformation efficiency of up to 70%. To our knowledge, there are no data on coexpression ratios of transient transformation of N. benthamiana leaves. We have compared the number of cells that expressed both fusion proteins needed for FRET from either two individual plasmids or from the novel 2in1 vectors (Fig. 4). As the exemplary gene for our studies, we used nucleus-localized BPC6 (CITATION). To avoid the complication of comparing across different vectors, we chose to use the same 2in1 vector not only for the actual transformation of one plasmid with two expression cassettes but also for the two individually transformed plasmids that contain only one fusion protein (donor or acceptor). For vectors incorporating only one of the two fusion proteins in the 2in1 LR reaction, an E. coli resistance marker (dummy) was recombined in the unused of the two expression cassettes, thereby preventing translational read through of that expression cassette’s C-terminal FP tag (Fig. 4). The resulting plasmid contained only one FP fusion protein (donor or acceptor), yet the same plasmid backbone was used for the infiltration. [[FIGURE]] We analyzed mean fluorescence intensities of nuclei from 30 different square sections (each roughly 0.084 mm2 in size) of four independently transformed N. benthamiana leaves that expressed either BPC6-mCherry, BPC6-mEGFP, or both (in pFRETgc-2in1-CC; for graphical description of the work flow, see Supplemental Fig. S2). Ratios of mCherry to mEGFP fluorescence were normalized by using the median value of all ratios as denominator for the absolute mCherry values. The box-plot diagram in Figure 4A shows ratios of 25% above or below the median in red boxes along with each value for mEGFP/mCherry signal, represented as black dots. Ratios 5 times higher (greater than 5) or lower (less than 0.2) than unity were designated as thresholds for coexpression. This analysis yielded an average cotransformation ratio for all four experiments of 77.6% (n = 1,221) for the individual and 99.3% (n = 1,099) for the 2in1 plasmid transformations. As the same promoter and backbone were used, the individual ratios also allow a rough estimate of coexpression efficiency. This suggests that, despite all potential posttranscriptional or posttranslational events that will be different for each pair of genes and fusion proteins to be analyzed, the 2in1 system allows for less variation in coexpression rates compared with individual plasmid transformation. Values slightly below 100% coexpression in 2in1 constructs could have resulted from truncations of the T-DNA left border or from silencing of one of the two expression cassettes in individual cells. Nevertheless, the nearly complete cotransformation of both fusion proteins in the 2in1 system illustrates its advantage for assays that are based on transient expression. As demonstrated in Figure 4, the high variance of cotransformations makes finding cells with nearly equal expression levels cumbersome and time consuming. Naturally, the fluorescence of both fusion proteins would allow one to choose cells (in transient studies) that express both proteins to similar levels, but the temporal advantage of utilizing a dual expressing T-DNA is obvious. In order to correlate the result of the cotransformation efficiency in Figure 4 with intensity-based FRET approaches, we performed AB experiments and measured the FRET efficiency of cells transfected with 2in1 constructs versus cells with two individual plasmids (Fig. 5). As a positive control, we again employed the nucleus-localized protein BPC6 fused to mEGFP and mCherry and its capacity to dimerize (CITATION). As a negative control, BPC6-mEGFP was coexpressed with nucleus-localized mCherry. Exactly as before, to avoid the complication of comparing across different vectors, the same 2in1 vector was used for individual and dual expression (see above). [[FIGURE]] For AB FRET experiments (Fig. 5), fluorescent nuclei were chosen that expressed mEGFP and mCherry at apparently equal levels (a routine that was more time consuming in the case of individual plasmids as compared with the 2in1 approach). Mean donor fluorescence intensity was measured in suitable nuclei (n = 30) before and after photobleaching of the mCherry acceptor fusion and used to calculate FRET efficiency (Fig. 5C). While the approach using two individual plasmids yielded FRET signals for the positive control sample that were significant when compared with the negative control, the values showed great variability. Contrary to that, the FRET efficiency values obtained using the 2in1 approach not only showed less variance but also resulted in higher FRET signals in general (FRET efficiency median value of 0.27 using 2in1 versus 0.11 using the conventional approach; Fig. 5C). Taken together, these results clearly show that a dual expressing T-DNA not only saves time in both preparing and performing the experiment but also allows for obtaining less variable, and hence more significant, results. Quantitative as well as semiquantitative FRET-based interaction studies require for each FP a number of parameters to be optimal, such as quantum yield, oligomerization state, pH dependency, and photostability (CITATION; CITATION). For the FRET pair, the spectral overlap, the acceptor’s absorption coefficient, and the Förster distance (the distance between donor and acceptor where 50% FRET efficiency is reached) are among the most important parameters (CITATION; CITATION). Intensity-based FRET techniques, such as donor dequenching through AB, are particularly sensitive to the relative concentrations of donor and acceptor, and their ratio should be kept as close to a constant value as possible (Fig. 5; CITATION; CITATION). Although this aspect can be tackled using the 2in1 approach, intensity-based FRET approaches are also subject to other difficulties, such as a cross talk caused by donor emission, which leaks into the acceptor channel, a direct excitation of the acceptor by the illumination source, or incomplete photobleaching of all acceptors in the microscopic detection volume (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). These problems are circumvented by measuring FRET using FLIM. This technique takes advantage of the radiative rates of the transition from the excited to the ground state of the donor chromophore, which can be related directly to the distance between donor and acceptor fluorophores (CITATION; CITATION). If energy transfer to an acceptor occurs, an additional relaxation channel for the donor to lose its excitation energy opens. Accordingly, the radiative transition competes with this additional nonradiative pathway, causing the donor fluorescence lifetime to be shifted to shorter time values. This reduction in the fluorescence lifetime of the quenched donor is connected to the FRET efficiency and can be quantified, resulting in a unique value for the fusion protein pair (CITATION; CITATION). Although FRET-FLIM requires careful data analysis, this method is much less error prone than intensity-based FRET methods. Figure 6 illustrates the use of the pFRETgc-2in1 and pFRETtv-2in1 vectors in measuring FRET-FLIM. The fluorescence lifetimes of donor BPC6-mEGFP with various mCherry acceptor fusions were visualized as bar charts (Fig. 6B) and as heat maps (Fig. 6C) that color code the fluorescence lifetime within the area of interest, here the nucleus. The results show that the donor lifetime of BPC6-mEGFP decreased significantly when coexpressed with BPC6-mCherry and, although slightly weaker, with an mCherry fusion protein encoding the nuclear localization signal-DNA-binding domain fusion of BPC1 (BPC1 NLS-DBD-mCherry). There is no lifetime decrease in the absence of an acceptor fusion or when BPC6-mEGFP is coexpressed with a gene coding for nucleus-targeted mCherry (Fig. 6B). These results indicate a specific homomerization of BPC6 and a heterotypic interaction of BPC6 with the DNA-binding domain of BPC1 inside the nucleus. This interaction has been detected before by yeast two-hybrid analysis (CITATION). The same set of proteins was also used to assess the feasibility of the mTRQ2/mVenus pair in FLIM analysis (Fig. 6, D–F), with results that virtually copy the mEGFP/mCherry study. Striking, though, is the difference in maximum donor lifetime of mTRQ2 (approximately 3.8 ns) as opposed to mEGFP (approximately 2.5 ns). This leads to higher absolute lifetime differences between positive and negative control samples, providing a broader range for quantitative and dynamic association measurements. [[FIGURE]] Each PPI technique comes with a set of advantages and disadvantages when compared with alternative approaches. A comparison of FLIM with an alternative PPI technique, therefore, seems appropriate. To eliminate a bias against varying expression, we chose our previously published 2in1-based rBiFC (CITATION) as an alternative method. An interaction between the soluble Qb+c SNARE SNAP33 and its corresponding Qa-SNAREs SYP111, SYP121, and/or SYP122 had been shown previously, mainly by using coimmunoprecipitation analysis (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). To our knowledge, these interactions have not been demonstrated using either FLIM or rBiFC. As biological negative controls, we made use of the Qa-SNARE SYP21, which localizes to the prevacuolar compartment (CITATION) and does not cross interact functionally with SYP121 or SYP122 (CITATION). Additionally, and to use a control that localizes to the PM, we employed a truncated version of SYP121 that only contains its membrane-spanning C-terminal tail devoid of the known cytoplasmic interaction site (Qa motif; CITATION; CITATION). A direct comparison of the two methods using membrane-localized proteins revealed some differences. As expected, an interaction between SNAP33 and the three SYP1 family SNAREs was identified by both rBiFC (Fig. 7, B and C) and FLIM (Fig. 7, E and F). Both methods also reported a lack of interaction between the noncognate pair of SYP21 and SNAP33. However, SYP121, when truncated to its transmembrane domain only, yielded a significant rBiFC signal with SNAP33, whereas FLIM analysis showed no difference from the background. We suggest that this seemingly contradictory result highlights the potential for the split fluorophore to stabilize interacting proteins and thereby enhance weak or otherwise transient interactions. Qa-SNAREs are able to assemble in homomultimers as well as heterodimers with Qb+c-SNAREs, and this applies equally to SYP121 and SNAP33 (CITATION). It is possible, therefore, that a weaker association with the SYP121 transmembrane domain, either with SNAP33 or with a SNAP33-SYP121 complex, could become locked through fluorophore annealing, a situation that would not arise when interactions were probed for protein complex dynamics using the FRET fluorophore pairs (CITATION). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Vectors were cloned using a combination of gene synthesis and classical cloning. Two different strategies were followed, one for vectors with both FPs at the C termini (CC) and one for the other tag orientations (CN, NC, and NN), as N-terminal FP fusions also carry a C-terminal epitope tag. A base vector (Supplemental Fig. S3A) was created through gene synthesis and subcloning of the synthesized cassette into the binary vector pBiFC-BB (CITATION) via PmeI/SnaBI. This resulted in the binary vector pBBb that carries a codon-optimized (for Arabidopsis [Arabidopsis thaliana]) Basta expression cassette adjacent to the left border of the T-DNA and with four unique blunt-end restriction enzyme sites (RES; AfeI, PmlI, EcoICRI, and SnaBI) 3′ of the right border. For the first strategy, a cloning helper vector (pUC35S-Tec; Supplemental Fig. S3B) was gene synthesized that contains the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and omega enhancer, unique XbaI-RES, 3xHA tag, unique MscI-RES, myc tag, unique NaeI-, SpeI-, PsiI-RES, and 35S terminator. This expression cassette is flanked by StuI-RES. pUC57-Tec was digested using XbaI/NaeI, and, using the 2in1 conversion vectors pUC-R3R2 and pUC-R1R4 (CITATION), recombination cassettes were subcloned via SpeI (compatible to XbaI) and PsiI (blunt end, like NaeI). The resulting vectors pUC35S::R3R2 and pUC35S::R1R4 were used to introduce FPs at the C termini of the expression cassettes (via SpeI/PsiI). Venus and EGFP (CITATION) were mutated at residue Ala-206 to Lys via site-directed mutagenesis (CITATION), rendering FP variants monomeric (CITATION). Resulting mEGFP, mVenus, and mTRQ2 were introduced in pUC35S::R3R2, and mCherry, tagRFP (Evrogen), and mVenus were introduced in pUC35S::R1R4. C-terminally tagged R3R2 expression cassettes were excised via StuI and inserted into pBBb via SnaBI. The three resulting vectors are pFRETgc-intA, pFRETvr-intA, and pFRETtv-intA. With the exception of the mCherry expression cassette, which was PCR amplified and flanked by HpaI-RES, the R1R4 cassettes were excised with StuI and ligated into the intermediate vectors via AfeI, to yield pFRETgc-2in1-CC, pFRETvr-2in1-CC, and pFRETtv-2in1-CC. The second strategy required another helper vector to be gene synthesized: pUC35S-Ctags (Supplemental Fig. S3C) contains the 35S promoter/omega enhancer followed by unique SpeI- and MscI-RES, a 3xHA tag, a unique NaeI-RES, a double myc tag, a unique PsiI-RES, and the 35S termination signal sequence. C-terminal 3xHA-tagged expression cassettes were created through the excision of 2xmyc tags via NaeI/PsiI and religation. The resulting vector was linearized using SpeI/MscI, and the R3R2 cassette of pUC-R3R2 was inserted (SpeI/PsiI). Via XbaI/HpaI, the PCR-amplified FPs mEGFP, mVenus, and mTRQ2 were introduced. Expression cassettes were excised via StuI and ligated into pBBb via SnaBI to create intermediate vectors pFRETgc-intB, pFRETvr-intB, and pFRETtv-intB. A C-terminally 2xmyc-tagged R1R4 cassette was generated through replacing the 3xHA tag in pUC35S-Ctags (SpeI/NaeI) with the R1R4 cassette of pUC-R1R4 (SpeI/PsiI). The FPs mCherry, tagRFP, and mVenus were PCR amplified and introduced via XbaI/HpaI 5′ of the R1R4 expression cassette. The resulting expression cassettes were excised via StuI (or PCR amplified in the case of mCherry) and introduced in intermediate vectors A and B. Also, the expression cassettes with C-terminally fused FPs were introduced into pFRET-2in1-intB vectors to generate another nine vectors: pFRETgc-2in1-CN, -NC, and -NN; pFRETvr-2in1-CN, -NC, and -NN; and pFRETtv-2in1-CN, -NC, and -NN. All vectors were verified via restriction digestion and/or Sanger sequencing. All maps, sequences, and/or DNAs are available upon request. Oligonucleotides for creating entry clones (Supplemental Table S1) were designed according to the guidelines in the Gateway manual (Life Technologies). PCR programs were based on a two-cycle routine using complementary DNA (cDNA) as a template: the first cycle comprises a five times repeated three-step program of denaturing at 95°C, annealing at 54°C, and synthesis at 72°C (20 s kb−1), followed by the second cycle, a 30 times repetition of a two-step routine, denaturing and synthesis, omitting the annealing step. After gel purification of PCR products, BP recombination reactions were performed as described previously (CITATION). The 2in1 LR reaction was performed according to the supplemental data of CITATION. A molar ratio of vector to entry clones of 1:3:3 yielded optimal results as described previously (CITATION). Colonies were selected from plates that contained 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-galactopyranoside/isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside in addition to spectinomycin to distinguish partly recombined (blue) from fully recombined (white) clones. Plasmid DNA was verified via restriction digest and Sanger sequencing. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 (CITATION) was used to transiently transform N. benthamiana with 2in1 FRET constructs through syringe-mediated infiltration (CITATION; CITATION). Overnight cultures of agrobacteria were used to inoculate fresh Luria-Bertani medium (supplemented with 50 µg µL−1 rifampicin, 20 µg µL−1 gentamycin, and 100 µg µL−1 spectinomycin) to an optical density of 0.01 and grown for another 4 to 6 h up to an optical density at 600 nm of 0.5 to 0.8. Agrobacteria were harvested, washed in sterile water, and resuspended in ice-cold AS medium (10 mm MgCl2, 10 mm MES-KOH, pH 5.6, plus 150 μm acetosyringone; CITATION; CITATION). After an incubation time of 30 to 60 min on ice, leaves of 3- to 4-week-old N. benthamiana plants were infiltrated as described previously (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). Leaves were subjected to CLSM analysis 2 d post infiltration. Leaves of 4-week-old Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0), grown under standard greenhouse conditions, were perforated abaxially and incubated in TEX buffer (Gamborg’s B5 salts, 500 mg L−1 MES, 750 mg L−1 CaCl2∙2H2O, 250 mg L−1 NH4NO3, and 0.4 m 13.7% [w/v] saccharose, pH 5.7), supplied with 1.5% (w/v) cellulase and 0.4% (w/v) macerozyme, overnight in the dark. After incubation, the cells were gently released, collected, and centrifuged at 100g. Intact cells, floating on top of the solution, were washed with W5 buffer (154 mm NaCl, 125 mm CaCl2, 5 mm KCl, and 5 mm Glc, pH 5.7). Transfection of protoplasts was carried out using the small-scale transfection method described previously (CITATION) with the following modifications. MMg (0.4 m Mannitol, 15 mm MgCl2, 4 mm MES, pH 6) was replaced by MM medium (0.4 m mannitol and 5 mm MES, pH 6), and the pH of the polyethylene glycol solution was decreased to pH 6. The concentration of cells was adjusted to 6.6 × 10−6 cells mL−1 with MM medium, and 2 × 10−5 cells were used per transfection subsequently. For the transfection, 4 µg of the respective plasmids were used according to CITATION. A. tumefaciens strain GV3101 carrying the respective plasmids was precultured overnight at 28°C in 5 mL of Luria-Bertani medium supplied with antibiotics. A total of 200 mL of Luria-Bertani medium (including antibiotics) was inoculated with 200 µL of preculture and grown overnight again. Cells were pelleted and resuspended in 200 mL of infiltration medium (5% [w/v] Suc, 0.01 Silwett, and 10 mm MgSO4). Inflorescences of 5- to 6-week-old Arabidopsis plants were dipped into the suspension according to the floral dip method (CITATION). The procedure was repeated after 1 week. T1 seeds were grown on soil and treated 7 d post germination with the herbicide Basta to select for successful transformants. All CLSM, AB, and FLIM measurements were performed using a Leica TCS SP8 confocal microscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a FLIM unit (PicoQuant). Images for Figures 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7 were acquired using a 63×/1.20 water-immersion objective. The rBiFC analysis was performed using a 40×/0.75 water-immersion objective. For excitation and emission of FPs, the following laser settings were used: mTRQ at excitation 458 nm and emission 465 to 505 nm; mVenus at excitation 514 nm and emission 520 to 560 nm; mEGFP at excitation 488 nm and emission 495 to 530 nm; mCherry at excitation 561 nm and emission 580 to 630 nm; tagRFP at excitation 561 nm and emission 580 to 630 nm. AB was performed using a bleaching routine with the 561-nm laser (mCherry) line at 100% intensity and 10 frames. Data derive from two different biological replicates and measurements of up to 15 nuclei for each replicate. The mean FRET efficiency as well as the se values were calculated using Microsoft Excel. FLIM data derive from four different biological replicates and measurements of up to 10 nuclei for each replicate. To excite BPC6-mEGFP for FLIM experiments, a 470-nm pulsed laser (LDH-P-C-470) was used, and the corresponding emission was detected with a FLIM-compatible photomultiplier tube from 495 to 530 nm by time-correlated single-photon counting using a Picoharp 300 module (PicoQuant). Each time-correlated single-photon counting histogram was reconvoluted with a corresponding instrument response function and fitted against a monoexponential decay function to unravel the GFP fluorescence lifetime of each nucleus. The average GFP fluorescence lifetimes as well as the se values were calculated using Microsoft Excel. The measurements for rBiFC were performed as described previously (CITATION). Data derive from four biological replicates with 20 different leaf sections each. Exemplary images define regions of interest for which mean fluorescence intensity was calculated and ratioed. Vector sequences and maps can be downloaded at http://www.psrg.org.uk and http://www.zmbp.uni-tuebingen.de/dev-genetics/grefen.html and are available upon request through these Web sites. The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Colocalization analysis of mEGFP-VAMP721 with mCherry-SYP121 using different transformation approaches. Supplemental Figure S2. Workflow to determine coexpression data of Figure 4. Supplemental Figure S3. Maps of base vectors used to assemble the pFRET-2in1 vectors. Supplemental Table S1. Oligonucleotides used for entry clone design and site-directed mutagenesis of FPs.
