!~ABS~! Water-soluble chlorophyll proteins (WSCPs) constitute a small family of unusual chlorophyll (Chl)-binding proteins that possess a Kunitz-type protease inhibitor domain. In Arabidopsis thaliana, a WSCP has been identified, named AtWSCP, that forms complexes with Chl and the Chl precursor chlorophyllide (Chlide) in vitro. AtWSCP exhibits a quite unexpected expression pattern for a Chl binding protein and accumulated to high levels in the apical hook of etiolated plants. AtWSCP expression was negatively light-regulated. Transgenic expression of AtWSCP fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) revealed that AtWSCP is localized to cell walls/apoplastic spaces. Biochemical assays identified AtWSCP as interacting with RD21 (RESPONSIVE TO DESICCATION 21), a granulin domain-containing cysteine protease implicated in stress responses and defense. Reconstitution experiments showed tight interactions between RD21 and WSCP that were relieved upon Chlide binding. Laboratory feeding experiments with two herbivorous isopod crustaceans, Porcellio scaber (woodlouse) and Armadillidium vulgare (pillbug), identified the apical hook as Achilles’ heel of etiolated plants and that this was protected by RD21 during greening. Because Chlide is formed in the apical hook during seedling emergence from the soil, our data suggest an unprecedented mechanism of herbivore resistance activation that is triggered by light and involves AtWSCP.
!~RES~! WSCPs are characterized by the presence of the chlorophyll(ide)-binding signature PFCPLGI (CITATION) and Kunitz trypsin inhibitor signature [LIVM]-x-D-x-[EDNTY]-[DG]-[RKHDENQ]-x-[LIVM]-x (CITATION)-Y-x-[LIVM]) (CITATION). Based on the occurrence of these motifs, a WSCP-related protein was identified in Arabidopsis thaliana, named AtWSCP, which is encoded by At1g72290. Sequence comparison revealed that AtWSCP belongs to a subfamily of Kunitz protease inhibitors in Arabidopsis (Fig. S1A). Interestingly, the protein encoded by At1g72290 lacks a predictable transit sequence for import into chloroplasts (www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP and www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/SignalP/) but contains a predictable signal peptide typical for proteins entering the secretory pathway (Fig. S1B) (CITATION). Database searches using the Arabidopsis eFP Browser at the Bio-Array Resource platform of the University of Toronto (CITATION) revealed AtWSCP transcript accumulation in dark-grown, but not in light-grown, seedlings. To substantiate this point, transgenic lines were generated expressing bacterial β-glucuronidase (GUS) under the control of the AtWSCP promoter (SI Materials and Methods). When expression of GUS was analyzed, almost no AtWSCP promoter activity was detectable in the cotyledons of dark-grown seedlings. Instead, strong AtWSCP promoter activity was found around the vascular tissues and especially in those of the apical hook. In light-grown seedlings of the same age, no AtWSCP promoter activity was detectable at all (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Semiquantitative PCR was used to quantify AtWSCP transcript accumulations during greening. Consistent with the AtWSCP promoter::GUS studies, AtWSCP transcripts were detectable only in etiolated seedlings (FIG-REF). In fact, levels of AtWSCP mRNA rapidly declined during greening (FIG-REF). By contrast, abundance of LHCBII transcripts encoding the major light-harvesting Chl a/b-binding protein of photosystem II increased steadily (FIG-REF). Protein gel blot analyses with polyclonal antibodies against bacterially expressed AtWSCP revealed the presence of a single band the size of which matched that of the mature AtWSCP lacking the predicted signal peptide (FIG-REF). The amount of this AtWSCP protein rapidly declined during greening (FIG-REF). A knockout mutant line (SALK_009681; termed Atwscp) with a T-DNA insertion in the single exon of the AtWSCP gene (FIG-REF) was obtained from the Salk Institute Genomic Analysis Laboratory collection (CITATION) and used for performing tests to define the role of AtWSCP in planta. Genotyping confirmed the presence of homozygous plants (FIG-REF). In Western blot analyses, no AtWSCP protein was detectable in etiolated Atwscp versus wild-type seedlings (FIG-REF). When grown in the dark for 3 d and subsequently exposed to light for 3, 6, and 24 h, respectively, etiolated wild-type and Atwscp seedlings looked indistinguishable and greened with similar kinetics (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Quite astonishing for a protein implicated in Chl binding, the structure predictions described before suggested AtWSCP to enter the secretory pathway (Fig. S1B). To gain insights into the localization of AtWSCP in planta, transgenic plants were generated constitutively expressing an AtWSCP::green fluorescent (GFP) fusion protein under the control of the 35S cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) promoter. For comparison, transgenic lines were established expressing fusions of GFP with WSCP from Lepidium virginicum (LvWSCP) and precursor ferredoxin (pFD) from Silene pratensis, respectively. pFD is a well-known example of a plastid protein with a typical chloroplast transit peptide directing the protein into the stroma. Similar to AtWSCP, LvWSCP is synthesized with a predictable signal peptide for entering the secretory pathway but nevertheless has been detected in chloroplasts from which it could be isolated and characterized (CITATION). Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of A. thaliana wild-type plants was used to obtain transgenic plants expressing AtWSCP::GFP, LvWSCP::GFP, pFD::GFP, or GFP alone. Etiolated seedlings of the T3 generations of the different transgenic lines were analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Obviously, AtWSCP::GFP signals were obtained in both the cotyledons and the apical hook. In the cotyledons, AtWSCP::GFP was not localized to the plastids in all transgenic lines examined (replicates of nine plants from five independent transgenic lines). Instead, AtWSCP::GFP fluorescence appeared in the outermost parts of the cell, either representing cell walls/apoplastic spaces or the tonoplast surrounding the vacuole (FIG-REF; see also Fig. S2 A–C). Often, huge vacuoles are present in plant cells and occupy large areas. In the microscopic images analyzed, the lack of intense “background” fluorescence covering uniformly the cell at first glance seems to disprove that AtWSCP::GFP accumulated in the soluble part of the vacuole. We cannot exclude, however, that AtWSCP::GFP was present in the tonoplast, tightly adhering/being tightly appressed to the cell wall. Such localization would be consistent with the structure predictions identifying a vacuolar localization signal in AtWSCP (Fig. S1). [[FIGURE]] For GFP alone without AtWSCP attached to it, a cytoplasmic localization was evident (FIG-REF; see also Fig. S2 D–F). Counterstaining with Calcofluor white confirmed the presence of thin primary cell walls typical for growing cells and reinforced the idea of AtWSCP::GFP localization in cell walls/apoplastic spaces and/or the tonoplast (FIG-REF). In transgenic lines constitutively overexpressing a fusion protein consisting of the predicted signal peptide of AtWSCP and GFP (SP::GFP), fluorescence was confined to similar regions of the cell representing cell walls/apoplastic spaces and/or vacuoles (Fig. S3). Because the chimeric protein comprised only the first 30 amino acids of AtWSCP and did not contain the putative vacuolar targeting signal (Fig. S1), we assume that this reporter protein was localized in cell walls/apoplastic spaces, while not necessarily precluding a localization of the full-length AtWSCP in the vacuole. For LvWSCP::GFP, a completely different localization in plastids was found in all transgenic lines examined (Fig. S4 A–C), as was seen for pFd::GFP used as control (Fig. S4 D–F). AtWSCP::GFP fluorescence distribution in the apical hook was similar to that in the cotyledons and revealed the presence of the protein in cell walls/apoplastic spaces (Fig. S5 A–C). In fact, no fluorescence signal was present in plastids (Fig. S5 A–C), whereas LvWSCP::GFP (Fig. S5 D–F) and pFd::GFP (Fig. S5 G–I) gave rise to strong plastid signals. One Kunitz trypsin inhibitor in chickpea, termed TPI-1, has been implicated in regulating hypocotyl growth and apical hook formation (CITATION⇓⇓–CITATION). If AtWSCP were to accomplish a similar role, changing its amount should have severe anatomical (phenotypic) effects. To test this hypothesis, we compared seedling morphology for wild-type and Atwscp mutant seedlings with that of transgenic lines constitutively overexpressing AtWSCP (35S::AtWSCP) under the control of the 35S promoter. Several independent 35S::AtWSCP lines were obtained that overexpressed AtWSCP (one is presented in FIG-REF). However, in none of these AtWSCP overexpressors could differences in hypocotyl length, light-triggered apical hook straightening, and overall seedling morphology be observed (FIG-REF). When hypocotyl length was measured after 3 and 5d, respectively, of growth in the dark provoking skotomophogenesis, no difference became apparent for wild-type, Atwscp mutant, and 35S::AtWSCP overexpressing plants (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Halls and coworkers (CITATION) identified AtWSCP as a potent inhibitor of the recombinant proaleurain maturation protease (At3g19390) and papain. There is a small family of granulin domain-containing proteases in Arabidopsis encoded by At3g19390, At5g43060, At4g34460 (XYLEM BARK CYSTEINE PEPTIDASE 3, XBCP3), and At1g47120 (RESPONSIVE TO DESICCATION 21, RD21). RD21 is most interesting because it has been implicated in various reactions conferring resistance to biotic and abiotic foes (CITATION⇓⇓–CITATION). Like many other cysteine endoproteases, RD21 is encoded as a preproprotein having an NH2-terminal propeptide with autoinhibitory activity and a COOH-terminal granulin-domain containing propeptide with unknown function (Fig. S6). The NH2-terminal propeptide is cleaved by a yet-unknown mechanism either requiring an autocatalytic processing under low pH or activity of a processing enzyme (CITATION). We asked whether RD21 may interact with AtWSCP in etiolated plants. To test for such interactions, pull-down assays were conducted on protein extracts that had been prepared from the apical hook of 4.5-d-old etiolated wild-type plants. Interestingly, both antibodies used, the one against RD21 and the one against AtWSCP, coprecipitated both proteins from the tissue extract of etiolated wild-type plants and, thus, confirmed the interaction of RD21 and AtWSCP in the apical hook. With protein extracts from flashed seedlings, however, the RD21 antibody precipitated only RD21 and the AtWSCP antibody precipitated only AtWSCP (FIG-REF). This result showed that RD21 and AtWSCP no longer interacted in flash-illuminated seedlings. [[FIGURE]] Next, we isolated WSCP-containing complexes from the apical hook of transgenic plants expressing AtWSCP-(His)6 constitutively. The protein complexes in turn were subjected to nondenaturing PAGE and detected by (i) Western blotting using the WSCP and RD21 antisera and (ii) scoring red light-induced pigment autofluorescence on X-ray films in case the protein would be complexed with Chl and/or Chlide. As shown in FIG-REF, both assays revealed the presence and light-induced dissociation of higher molecular mass (HMr) complexes containing both WSCP and RD21 in the apical hook of etiolated plants. Several different WSCP bands of descent size were obtained, which most likely represent dissociation intermediates. Interestingly, a pool of monomeric WSCP was present already in the dark but gave rise to an autofluorescing band containing pigment only during greening (FIG-REF, compare a and b). In a final experiment, cDNA-encoded Flag-tagged RD21 containing the granulin domain and His-tagged mature AtWSCP lacking its targeting signal were produced by coupled in vitro transcription/translation of respective cDNA clones, purified, and reconstituted into larger complexes. These complexes in turn were supplemented with Chl or Chlide and complex dissociation monitored by nondenaturing PAGE as described before. FIG-REF depicts HMr complexes containing RD21 and WSCP and shows their Chlide-dependent dissociation. Results shown in the supporting information proved the specificity of the WSCP-pigment interaction and that the dissociation of the HMr complexes led to an activation of RD21’s proteolytic activity. This dissociation is illustrated in Fig. S7, showing the decline of both WSCP and RD21 to vanishingly low levels after prolonged incubations in white light. The results presented so far suggested a light-dependent, Chlide- and WSCP-mediated mechanism of RD21 activation in the apical hook of etiolated plants during greening. We asked whether such mechanism could contribute to plant protection against herbivorous arthropods that prey on seeds and young seedlings (CITATION). Examples for such herbivorous arthropods are provided by Porcellio scaber (woodlouse) and Armadillidium vulgare (pillbug), two largely nocturnal isopod crustaceans that are generally considered to represent seed predators and detritivores but can also live as facultative herbivores (CITATION). If deprived for nutrients, woodlice climbed light-grown plants and severed inflorescence stems and petioles (CITATION). Both isopod species also attacked etiolated seedlings and selected the apical hook as primary target. Quantitative assays revealed that approximately 50% of the etiolated seedlings analyzed in three replicate experiments were severed by the isopods, breaking the apical hook and dropping the cotyledons (FIG-REF). The dropped cotyledons in turn were consumed, beginning at the mid ribs and outer leaf edges, but this feeding activity was delayed and occurred only 24 h after the first attack breaking the apical hook. [[FIGURE]] Remarkably, the primary attack at the apical hook, but not subsequent feeding activity on the cotyledons, was significantly reduced in the Atwscp mutant containing free RD21 and, in fact, accounted to only 10% of that seen on etiolated wild-type seedlings (FIG-REF). Interestingly, this percentage was similar to the value obtained for wild-type seedlings that had been flashed and subsequently transferred to darkness for 2 h. In marked contrast to these results, no such light effect on the primary and secondary feeding activity of woodlice and pillbugs was observed for seedlings constitutively overexpressing AtWSCP (FIG-REF).
!~MM~! Seeds of the following Arabidopsis thaliana lines were used for the experiments: ecotype Columbia (Col-0; referred to as wild-type), SALK_009681 (renamed Atwscp) that carries a T-DNA insertion in the gene At1g72290 encoding AtWSCP (CITATION), transgenic lines expressing AtWSCP constitutively (wild-type transformed with the plasmid pB7WG2 containing the coding frame for AtWSCP; referred to as 35S::AtWSCP), lines carrying the promoter of AtWSCP in front of the β-glucuronidase coding sequence (AtWSCP::GUS), and transgenic lines expressing AtWSCP, LvWSCP, and pFD fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of 35S promoter (35S::AtWSCP/LvWSCP/pFD::GFP). For comparison, transgenic seedlings expressing a fusion consisting of the signal peptide of AtWSCP and GFP (SP::GFP) were produced. Seeds were plated onto Murashige–Skoog agar medium and germinated in the dark or in white light for appropriate periods. Populations of 120 wild-type, Atwscp mutant, and 35S::AtWSCP overexpressing plants were grown for 4.5 d in darkness on Petri dishes, and the open dishes were then transferred to a large box, filled to a depth of 6 cm with soil, and containing P. scaber and A. vulgare. Cultivation of the isopods was performed essentially as described in ref. CITATION. For feeding experiments, P. scaber and A. vulgare were fed with pesticide-free Arabidopsis wild-type plants, then starved for 3 d and placed at low density of 1–3 per liter of soil into the nutrient chamber. At different times, feeding was measured by counting the number of plants with damaged apical hooks and/or dropped cotyledons. Protein extracts of etiolated seedlings were prepared according to Hurkman and Tanaka (CITATION). Briefly, tissues were extracted with doubly concentrated SDS sample buffer (CITATION), separated on 12% (wt/vol) SDS/PAGE gels, and blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes. Western blotting was carried out according to Towbin et al. (CITATION) by using an alkaline phosphatase-based system with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate and nitro blue tetrazolium or enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL Western Blotting Analysis system; Amersham), respectively. Pull-down assays on protein extracts of the apical hook region were performed with antibodies raised against the bacterially expressed and purified AtWSCP (SI Materials and Methods) and antibodies against RD21, using standard procedures. Isolation of HMr AtWSCP complexes was achieved by Ni-NTA agarose chromatography of apical hook extracts that had been prepared from transgenic seedlings overexpressing a AtWSCP(His)6 protein. In vitro reconstitution experiments and pigment autofluorescence screens were carried out with cDNA-encoded, wheat germ-translated proteins containing or lacking [35S]methionine and isolated pigments (Chl, Chlide, Pchlide) (CITATION). Semiquantitative PCR was carried out on DNA templates that had been generated by first-strand cDNA synthesis, using appropriate primers, as described in the SI Materials and Methods. AtWSCP promoter activity was scored in transgenic plants expressing β-glucuronidase (GUS) by using standard procedures (SI Materials and Methods). Image acquisition was made with an Eclipse E-600 (Nikon) microscope or a SZX12 (Olympus) binocular and documented with an Olympus DP70 camera.
