!~ABS~! Expression of the Arabidopsis halleri hyperaccumulation gene HMA4 in A. thaliana reveals functional differentiation among the three AhHMA4 copies and non-polar localization of the AhHMA4 protein in root pericycle cells.
!~RES~! Based on sequence similarity, it was postulated that if functional differences exist among the three AhHMA4 copies, they are most likely determined by the promoters. To individually examine the function of each AhHMA4 gene copy, homozygous transgenic lines (T3 generation) were generated of the hma2hma4 loss-of-function A. thaliana mutant expressing the same AhHMA4 cDNA under the control of each of the three AhHMA4 promoters. Owing to technical constraints, relatively short versions of the pAhHMA4-2 and pAhHMA4-3 promoters (about 1000bp upstream of the ATG translation initiation codon) were cloned previously for a promoter GUS reporter study (CITATIONet al., 2008). Here, longer DNA fragments of 2284 and 2030bp upstream of the ATG start codon were cloned for pAhHMA4-2 and pAhHMA4-3, respectively, based on available A. halleri BAC sequences in the HMA4 locus (CITATIONet al., 2008). For the pAhHMA4-1 promoter, the 2296bp fragment described in CITATIONet al. (2008) was used. Because no antibody raised against the HMA4 protein is available, an AhHMA4::GFP fusion was cloned in order to localize the HMA4 protein in planta. In the described growth conditions on standard soil, the hma2hma4 mutant developed its typical phenotype: stems were very small, which led to a bushy aspect with chlorotic leaves and inflorescences presented no pollen and sterile flowers, in contrast to the wild type (CITATION, CITATION), as previously described (CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2010). Expression of AhHMA4::GFP under the control of any of the three AhHMA4 promoters fully complemented the mutant, restoring a wild-type-like phenotype: the plants developed normally and were able to flower and set seeds without additional Zn supply in the soil (CITATION–CITATION). HMA4 transcript levels were determined in root and shoot tissues of these plants by quantitative RT-PCR analysis. As expected, AtHMA4 transcripts were detected in wild-type plants only (Supplementary Fig. S1). AhHMA4 transcripts were detected consistently in the complemented mutants only and the steady-state levels were higher in roots than in shoots. In roots, AhHMA4 transcript levels were not significantly different between constructs (CITATION). In contrast, in shoots, the AhHMA4 transcript levels were 3-fold higher in pAhHMA-3 lines than in pAhHMA4-1 and pAhHMA4-2 lines (CITATION). The hma2hma4 Zn deficiency phenotype can be rescued by AhHMA4::GFP. (A) Wild-type, and (B) hma2hma4 mutant A. thaliana plants as well as transgenic homozygous plants expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of (C) pAhHMA4-1, (D) pAhHMA4-2, and (E) pAhHMA4-3 were grown on soil watered with tap water (this figure is available in colour at JXB online). Expression of AhHMA4 in roots and shoots of the complemented lines. Transgenic homozygous plants expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of pAhHMA4-1, pAhHMA4-2, and pAhHMA4-3 were grown hydroponically with 0.2 µM Zn. Relative expression levels of AhHMA4 in (A) roots and (B) shoots are means±SEM of three to four independent lines from one experiment, representative of two independent biological experiments, each including two to four plants per line. The data were analysed with an unpaired t-test. Statistically significant differences (P < 0.05) between means are indicated by different superscripted letters. RTL: relative transcript level. Because the AhHMA4::GFP fusion protein was functional (CITATION), the complemented mutant transgenic lines were used to examine if each of the three AhHMA4 promoters determined an identical expression profile at the protein level (CITATION). In all cases, the AhHMA4::GFP protein was expressed in the pericycle in roots. The protein localized in the plasma membrane of cells in a non-polar fashion. Performing a plasmolysis of the root cells confirmed the plasma membrane localization (CITATION, CITATION). Localization of AhHMA4::GFP fusion protein in A. thaliana. GFP fluorescence was imaged by confocal microscopy in roots of 18-day-old seedlings of homozygous hma2hma4 mutants expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of (A, B) pAhHMA4-1, (C, D) pAhHMA4-2, and (E, F) pAhHMA4-3 promoters. (G, H) Wild-type A. thaliana seedlings used as control. (I, J) Plasmolysis was performed on a pAhHMA4-1 line, resulting in shrinkage of the plasma membrane. Propidium iodide was used to stain the cell walls (red). Images are representative of a minimum of three independent lines. Dotted arrows identify the different root tissues: c, cortex; e, endodermis; ep, epidermis; p, pericycle; x, xylem. Cross sections: A, C, E, G; longitudinal sections: B, D, F, H, I, J. Scale bars: 30 µm (A, C, E, G, H, J), 20 μm (B, D, F) and 10 µm (I). Localization of AhHMA4::GFP in A. halleri transgenics was also studied. Because transforming A. halleri is a long and complex process, only A. halleri lines expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of pAhHMA4-1 and pAhHMA4-3 could be generated as representatives of the two extreme modifications of the HMA4 promoter compared to A. thaliana (CITATION). For these two promoters, the expression profile and sub-cellular localization was identical to that observed in A. thaliana. It can be reasonably assumed that pAhHMA4-2 is also active in the pericycle of A. halleri roots. In addition, GFP was observed in cells within the vascular bundle (CITATION). Localization of AhHMA4::GFP fusion protein in A. halleri. GFP fluorescence was imaged by confocal microscopy in roots of A. halleri expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of (A, B) pAhHMA4-1 and (C) pAhHMA4-3 promoters and of (D) wild-type A. halleri as control. Propidium iodide was used to stain the cell walls (red). Images are representative of a minimum of two independent lines. Dotted arrows identify the different root tissues: c, cortex; e, endodermis; ep, epidermis; p, pericycle; x, xylem. Cross sections: B; longitudinal sections: A, C, D. Scale bars: 30 µm (A, B, D) and 50 μm (C). To determine how the expression of AhHMA4 under the control of each AhHMA4 promoter contributed to Zn and Cd tolerance, root growth was measured in 10-day-old seedlings (wild-type, hma2hma4 mutant, and complemented lines) exposed for 7 days on agar medium plates to the control condition (1 µM Zn), Zn excess (150 µM), and Cd (40 µM). In control conditions, the root growth was identical for all genotypes (CITATION). Upon exposure to excess Zn, the root growth of all genotypes was reduced but the hma2hma4 mutant was more affected, with a 59% growth reduction compared to control conditions (CITATION). The root growths of wild-type and pAhHMA4-1 lines were similar and ~16% higher than hma2hma4. pAhHMA4-2 and pAhHMA4-3 lines were the most tolerant with a ~39% higher root growth compared to the double mutant (CITATION). In the presence of Cd, the root growth drastically decreased for all genotypes, by about 70–90% compared to control conditions (CITATION). Again, the hma2hma4 mutant was the most affected and its growth almost stopped (90% growth reduction compared to control conditions). The root growths of wild-type, pAhHMA4-1, and pAhHMA4-2 lines were similar and 62–90% higher than for hma2hma4. The root growth of pAhHMA4-3 lines was even higher: 173% higher than the double mutant (CITATION). Zn and Cd tolerance in A. thaliana complemented lines. Wild-type and hma2hma4 mutant A. thaliana seedlings as well as transgenic homozygous seedlings expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of pAhHMA4-1, pAhHMA4-2, and pAhHMA4-3 were exposed to (A) 1 µM ZnSO4 (control), (B) 150 µM ZnSO4, and (C) 40 µM CdSO4. Root growth values (in cm) are means±SEM and are representative of one experiment out of a total of three independent biological experiments, each including 15–20 seedlings per line/treatment and four to five independent lines. The data were analysed with a two-way ANOVA test with log-transformed values followed by Tukey and Kramer’s multiple comparison tests (P < 0.05). Statistically significant differences between means within treatments are indicated by different superscripted letters. How the expression of AhHMA4 under the control of each AhHMA4 promoter contributed to metal accumulation was also determined. Zn and Cd concentrations were measured in the roots and rosette leaves of wild-type, hma2hma4 mutant, and complemented plants after cultivation for 4 weeks in Hoagland hydroponic medium containing either 0.2 µM Zn or 0.05 µM Cd. Hoagland medium classically contains 1 µM Zn (CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2006), and at this Zn concentration, the growth of the hma2hma4 mutant was rescued: it could flower and set seeds similarly to the wild type (data not shown). A concentration of 0.2 µM Zn was optimal to distinguish the mutant from the wild type in these growth conditions and assess complementation by the AhHMA4::GFP constructs. Indeed, at 0.2 µM Zn, the hma2hma4 mutant displayed a Zn-deficiency phenotype, whereas all complemented lines displayed a wild-type phenotype (Supplementary Fig. S2). The hma2hma4 mutant accumulated about 6-fold higher Zn in roots and 4.4-fold lower Zn in shoots than the wild type, respectively (CITATION, CITATION). In roots, the complemented lines accumulated less Zn than the mutant: root Zn accumulation was intermediate between wild type and mutant in pAhHMA-1 and pAhHMA-2 lines while the pAhHMA-3 lines accumulated the smallest Zn amount, at a level similar to the wild type (CITATION). In contrast, Zn accumulation in shoots was 4.4-fold higher in the pAhHMA-1 lines than in the hma2hma4 mutant and similar to the wild type. The pAhHMA-2 and pAhHMA-3 lines accumulated even more Zn: ~8-fold more than the hma2hma4 mutant and 1.8-fold more than the wild type (CITATION). Identical observations were made upon 0.05 µM Cd exposure (in the presence of 1 µM Zn): expression of AhHMA4::GFP in the hma2hma4 mutant restored Cd accumulation in shoots and, in pAhHMA-2 and pAhHMA-3 lines, the Cd levels were similar to wild-type levels in roots and shoots (CITATION, CITATION). Zn and Cd accumulation in A. thaliana complemented lines. Wild-type and hma2hma4 mutant A. thaliana plants as well as transgenic homozygous plants expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of pAhHMA4-1, pAhHMA4-2, and pAhHMA4-3 were cultivated hydroponically with (A, B) 0.2 µM ZnSO4 and (C, D) 0.05 µM CdSO4/1 µM ZnSO4. Zn and Cd concentrations (mg kg−1 dry weight) were measured in root and rosette tissues collected from two to three plants per line. Values are means±SEM of four to five independent lines from one experiment and are representative of three independent experiments. The data were analysed with a two-way ANOVA test with log-transformed values followed by Tukey and Kramer’s multiple comparison tests (P < 0.05). Statistically significant differences (P < 0.05) between means within each figure panel are indicated by different superscripted letters. To further examine how the expression of AhHMA4 under the control of each AhHMA4 promoter contributed to Zn translocation from roots to shoots, the expression level of four genes that respond to Zn status in tissues was measured: ZIP4, ZIP9, and IRT3 encoding Zn uptake transporters, and NAS2 encoding an enzyme involved in the synthesis of the Zn chelator nicotianamine (NA). The four genes are up-regulated by Zn deficiency and down-regulated by Zn excess in A. thaliana (CITATIONet al., 2006). Gene expression in roots and shoots of plants hydroponically cultivated at 0.2 µM Zn for 5 weeks was analysed by quantitative RT-PCR. In roots, for all four genes, the steady-state transcript levels were lower (up to 75%) in the hma2hma4 mutant than in the wild type (CITATION), as expected: the increased Zn accumulation in roots of the mutant (CITATION) resulted in a down-regulation of the genes. In roots, ZIP4 steady-state transcript levels were higher in all complemented lines than in the wild type (3.4-fold) and the hma2hma4 mutant (8-fold) (CITATION). In addition, the steady-state transcript levels of IRT3, ZIP9, and NAS2, were 2- to 5.4-fold higher in the pAhHMA4-2 and pAhHMA4-3 lines compared to the pAhHMA4-1, wild type, and hma2hma4 mutant lines (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION), indicative of Zn depletion in root tissues. Expression of Zn-responsive genes in roots of A. thaliana complemented lines. Wild-type and hma2hma4 mutant A. thaliana plants as well as transgenic homozygous plants expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of pAhHMA4-1, pAhHMA4-2, and pAhHMA4-3 were grown hydroponically with 0.2 µM Zn. Relative expression levels of (A) IRT3, (B) ZIP4, (C) ZIP9, and (D) NAS2 are presented as means±SEM of three to four independent lines from one experiment representative of two independent biological experiments, each including two to four plants per line. The data were analysed with an unpaired t-test. Statistically significant differences (P < 0.05) between means are indicated by different superscripted letters. RTL: relative transcript level. In contrast, in shoots, all genes were more highly expressed in the hma2hma4 mutant (5 to 137-fold) compared to the wild type (CITATION), highlighting the major Zn deficiency in shoots of the mutant (CITATIONet al., 2004). Steady-state transcript levels of all genes were massively down-regulated in complemented lines compared to the mutant. The steady-state transcript levels of IRT3 and ZIP4 in all complemented lines were similar to the wild type (CITATION, CITATION). Interestingly, the steady-state transcript levels of ZIP9 and NAS2 were higher, although not significantly, in shoots of the pAhHMA4-3 lines than in the other complemented lines (CITATION, CITATION). Expression of Zn-responsive genes in shoots of A. thaliana complemented lines. Wild-type and hma2hma4 mutant A. thaliana plants as well as transgenic homozygous plants expressing AhHMA4::GFP under the control of pAhHMA4-1, pAhHMA4-2, and pAhHMA4-3 were grown hydroponically with 0.2 µM Zn. Relative expression levels of (A) IRT3, (B) ZIP4, (C) ZIP9, and (D) NAS2 are presented as means±SEM of three to four independent lines from one experiment representative of two independent biological experiments, each including two to four plants per line. The data were analysed with an unpaired t-test. Statistically significant differences (P < 0.05) between means are indicated by different superscripted letters. RTL: relative transcript level.
!~MM~! A. halleri (L.) O’Kane and Al-Shehbaz ssp. halleri (accession Langelsheim) or A. thaliana L. Heynhold (accession Columbia-0, Col-0) and the A. thaliana hma2hma4 double mutant (Col-0 background, described in CITATIONet al., 2004) were used in all experiments. For physiological experiments, A. thaliana plants were cultivated in liquid or on solid modified Hoagland medium supplemented with 0.8% (w/v) agar (Agar type M; Sigma-Aldrich) in plastic Petri dishes as previously described (CITATIONet al., 2006; CITATIONet al., 2008), either under a photoperiod of 16h (long days) or 8h (short days) light (100 µmol photon m−2 s−1) in a climate-controlled growth chamber at 21/19°C (day/night). Before transformation, the hma2hma4 mutant was cultivated on soil supplied daily with 1mM ZnSO4.7H2O solution for 7 weeks and then 3mM ZnSO4.7H2O for 5 weeks. The hma2hma4 mutant was transformed by floral dip (CITATION). Homozygous lines were obtained after selection on hygromycin B (20 µg/ml) on half-strength Murashige and Skoog solid medium (Duchefa Biochimie) supplemented with 1% sucrose. For the phenotyping on soil, seeds of the complemented lines, wild-type, and hma2hma4 mutant were germinated on half-strength Murashige and Skoog solid medium supplemented with 1% sucrose in long days. Then, 18-day-old seedlings were transferred in soil watered with tap water and grown in long days for 6 weeks. Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated (GV3101, pMP90) stable transformation of A. halleri was performed using a tissue-culture based procedure (CITATIONet al., 2008). The pAhHMA4-x::HMA4::GFP constructs for transformation of the hma2hma4 mutant and A. halleri were generated as follows: (i) the eGFP gene was amplified using primers 5′-tatagtcgacatggtgagcaagggcgaggag-3′ containing a SalI restriction site (italic) and 5′-tcttaattaattacttgtacagctcgtccatgccgagagtgat-3′ containing a PacI restriction site (italic). The full-length AhHMA4 cDNA was amplified from an A. halleri cDNA library using primers 5′-tatagtcgacagcactcacatggtgatggtgg-3′ containing a SalI restriction site (italic) and 5′-caccccgaaaatggcgtcacaaaacaaag-3′ containing a BsaHI restriction site (italic). The promoter fragment and cDNA were fused by ligation at the SalI site. Then the AhHMA4::GFP fragment was cloned into the BsaHI/PacI sites of the pBluescript II KS+ vector carrying the promoter of AhHMA4 copy 1 (pAhHMA4-1) (2296bp) as described in CITATIONet al. (2008). (ii) The pAhHMA4-2 (2284bp) and pAhHMA4-3 (2030bp) promoters were amplified from A. halleri genomic DNA (Langelsheim Lan-3.1; CITATIONet al., 2006; CITATIONet al., 2008) using primers 5′-atatgtcgactttctcttcttctttgttttgtgacgcc-3′ containing a SalI restriction site (italic) and 5′-atatgaattc ggcgcgccgctctctatcctcctttgtaagttcacc-3′ containing SalI (italic) and AscI (bold) restriction sites and cloned by replacing the pAhHMA4-1 into the BsaHI/AscI sites of the pBluescript II KS+ vector carrying AhHMA4::GFP. (iii) The pAhHMA4::AhHMA4::GFP cassettes were AscI/PacI-excised from pBluescript II KS+ and cloned into the corresponding sites of the pMDC32 binary vector (CITATION) from which the 35S promoter had been removed using ApaI and HindIII. All constructs were verified by sequencing. The roots of 18-day-old seedlings of three independent complemented A. thaliana lines and A. halleri lines expressing pAhHMA4::AhHMA4::GFP were analysed for each of the three promoters. Images were collected using a SP2 confocal microscope (Leica, Mannheim, Germany) as previously described (CITATIONet al., 2006; CITATIONet al., 2010). An Argon/Ion laser (488nm) for excitation of the GFP protein and a Helium/Neon laser (543nm) for excitation of propidium iodide (cell walls) were used. The emission light was dispersed and recorded at 500–540nm for GFP and 600–700nm for propidium iodide. Plasmolysis of the root cells was performed by incubating roots in a 4% (w/v) NaCl solution. Col-0 (wild-type) and hma2hma4 mutant plants as well as the complemented mutants (four to five independent T3 homozygous lines per promoter construct) were analysed. The seedlings were cultivated in short days on solid Hoagland medium containing 1 µM ZnSO4 for 10 days and then transferred on solid Hoagland medium containing either 1 µM ZnSO4, 150 µM ZnSO4, or 40 µM CdSO4 (CITATIONet al., 2008). The root growth was monitored every 2 days and was measured on day 7. Col-0 (wild-type) and hma2hma4 mutant plants as well as the complemented mutants (four to five independent T3 homozygous lines per promoter construct) were analysed. Eighteen days after germination on modified Hoagland medium in short days, the seedlings were transferred to hydroponic trays (Araponics, CITATIONet al., 2003) with Hoagland medium containing 1 μM ZnSO4 and grown in short days for 2 weeks before initiating the treatments. Plants were then cultivated on either 0.2 μM ZnSO4 or 0.05 μM CdSO4 for 4 weeks under long days. Root and rosette tissues of two to three plants were harvested separately and desorbed as described (CITATIONet al., 2006). Plant tissues were dried at 60°C for 3 days. Tissues (10–50mg) were then acid-digested in a DigiPrep tube with 3ml 65% HNO3 (Sigma-Aldrich) on a DigiPrep Graphite Block Digestion System (SCP Science) as follows: 15min at 45°C, 15min at 65°C, and 90min at 105°C. After cooling, sample volumes were adjusted to 10ml with milliQ water, and 200 µl >65% HNO3 was added. Metal concentration was measured using inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy with a Vista-AX instrument (Varian, Melbourne, Australia). Col-0 (wild-type) and hma2hma4 mutant plants as well as the complemented mutants (three to four independent T3 homozygous lines per promoter construct) were analysed. Eighteen days after germination on modified Hoagland medium in short days, seedlings were transferred to hydroponic trays with Hoagland medium containing 0.2 μM ZnSO4 and grown for 5 weeks in short days. Root and rosette tissues were harvested separately from two to four plants per genotype. Total DNase-treated RNA was extracted with RNeasy Plant Mini Kit and DNase set (Qiagen). Quality and quantity of RNA was checked visually by denaturing gel electrophoresis and by photometric analysis (A260 and A280). Syntheses of cDNA were performed with 500ng of total RNA using Oligo(dT) and the RevertAid H Minus First Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Fisher Scientific). Quantitative PCR reactions were performed in 384-well plates with an ABI Prism 7900HT system (Applied Biosystems) using Mesa Green qPCR MasterMix (Eurogentec). A total of three technical repeats were run for each combination of cDNA and primer pair (Supplementary Table S1). Equal amounts of cDNA, corresponding to approximately 6ng of total RNA, were used in each reaction. In addition, each reaction contained 5 µl of Mesa Green qPCR MasterMix and 2.5 pmol of forward and reverse primers in a total volume of 10 µl. The following standard thermal profile was used: 2min at 50°C, 10min at 95°C, 40 repeats of 15 s at 95°C and 60 s at 60°C, and a final stage of 15 s at 95°C, 15 s at 60°C, and 15 s at 95°C to determine dissociation curves of the amplified products. The quality of the PCRs was checked visually through analysis of dissociation and amplification curves, and reaction efficiencies were determined for each PCR using the LinRegPCR software v2013 (CITATIONet al., 2009). Mean reaction efficiencies were then determined for each primer pair from all reactions (>100 reactions; Supplementary Table S1) and used to calculate relative gene expression levels by normalization using multiple reference genes with the qBase software (Biogazelle; CITATIONet al., 2007). Two reference genes (UBQ10, EF1a) were selected from the literature (CITATIONet al., 2005). Their adequacy to normalize gene expression in the experimental conditions was verified using the geNorm software in qBase (gene stability measure M = 0.464, pairwise variation CV = 0.161) (CITATIONet al., 2002). All data evaluation and statistics were done using GraphPad Prism 5 (GraphPad Software) and the GLM procedure (two-way ANOVA) in SAS 9.3 (SAS Software). A. halleri sequences are available through EBI (http://www.ebi.ac.uk), accession numbers EU382072, EU382073.
