!~ABS~! Primary plasmodesmata (PD) arise at cytokinesis when the new cell plate forms. During this process, fine strands of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are laid down between enlarging Golgi-derived vesicles to form nascent PD, each pore containing a desmotubule, a membranous rod derived from the cortical ER. Little is known about the forces that model the ER during cell plate formation. Here, we show that members of the reticulon (RTNLB) family of ER-tubulating proteins in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) may play a role in the formation of the desmotubule. RTNLB3 and RTNLB6, two RTNLBs present in the PD proteome, are recruited to the cell plate at late telophase, when primary PD are formed, and remain associated with primary PD in the mature cell wall. Both RTNLBs showed significant colocalization at PD with the viral movement protein of Tobacco mosaic virus, while superresolution imaging (three-dimensional structured illumination microscopy) of primary PD revealed the central desmotubule to be labeled by RTNLB6. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching studies showed that these RTNLBs are mobile at the edge of the developing cell plate, where new wall materials are being delivered, but significantly less mobile at its center, where PD are forming. A truncated RTNLB3, unable to constrict the ER, was not recruited to the cell plate at cytokinesis. We discuss the potential roles of RTNLBs in desmotubule formation.
!~RES~! Of the 21 RTNLB homologs in the Arabidopsis database, we generated transgenic lines for RTNLB1 to RTNLB4 and RTNLB6, either as RTNLB-YFP (for yellow fluorescent protein) or RTNLB-GFP fusions under the control of Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoters. In all transgenic lines, RTNLBs labeled the ER in interphase cells (Fig. 1, A–D). We noticed for some RTNLB lines that fluorescence became localized to the cell plate in dividing root cells. This localization was recorded for RTNLB2, RTNLB3, RTNLB4, and RTNLB6 (Fig. 1, E–H). In particular, strong cell plate labeling was observed for RTNLB3 and RTNLB6 (Fig. 1, G and H), two RTNLBs present in the PD proteome (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To examine RTNLB distribution during cell division, we expressed Arabidopsis RTNLB3 and RTNLB6 in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) ‘Bright Yellow 2’ (BY2) cells and followed their distribution in mitotically dividing cells. We used FM4-64 as a marker for the developing cell plate (CITATION) and found that both RTNLBs showed strong colocalization with FM4-64-labeled cell plate membranes (Fig. 1, I and J). We found a strong signal associated with the newly formed wall at the center and a more diffuse signal associated with the trailing edges of the cell plate (Fig. 1, I and J). Next, we expressed the lumenal ER marker GFP-HDEL together with RTNLB3-YFP. In cv BY2 cells at interphase, as in Arabidopsis, GFP-HDEL was restricted to pockets in the ER by the RTNLB3-YFP-mediated constriction of the ER lumen (Supplemental Fig. S1A). However, both RTNLB3-YFP and GFP-HDEL labeled the cortical ER uniformly throughout cell division (Fig. 1, K and L). However, RTNLB3 became redistributed from the cortical ER into the developing cell plate during mid and late telophase, features not seen with GFP-HDEL (Fig. 1L). We next agroinfiltrated constructs of RTNLB3-YFP and RTNLB6-YFP into Nicotiana benthamiana plants transgenically expressing the movement protein of Tobacco mosaic virus fused to GFP (MP-GFP; CITATION) that is known to locate to PD. In mature epidermal cells, we saw a significant colocalization of these RTNLB fusions with MP-GFP (Fig. 2). [[FIGURE]] To confirm that RTNLBs were associated with desmotubules, we used three-dimensional structured illumination microscopy (3D-SIM; CITATION) to examine primary PD in the walls between cv BY2 cells. To image the ER associated with PD more clearly, we plasmolyzed adjacent cells expressing RTNLB3 or RTNLB6 and also imaged plasmolyzed cells expressing red fluorescent protein (RFP)-HDEL for comparison. By confocal microscopy, we observed a strong RTNLB signal associated with punctae at the end walls of plasmolyzed cells (Fig. 3, A and B). Interestingly, Hechtian strands connecting the retracting protoplasts with the end walls showed strong RTNLB labeling, indicating that a constricted tubule of ER runs through each Hechtian strand (Fig. 3, A and B). In contrast, we did not find RFP-HDEL within Hechtian strands or associated with PD (Fig. 3C), confirming previous reports that GFP targeted to the ER lumen is excluded from the center of the desmotubule, where the ER membranes are in close contact (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). RFP-HDEL was also excluded from the Hechtian strands (Fig. 3C), indicating that, during plasmolysis, RFP-HDEL is squeezed into the contracting protoplast. [[FIGURE]] With 3D-SIM, we were able to resolve simple PD and found that desmotubules labeled with RTNLB6-GFP could be traced across individual cell walls (Fig. 3, D–H). Often, we observed the cortical ER undergoing abrupt changes in direction toward the entrance of a PD pore (Fig. 3, G and H). Figure 3J shows the cortical ER associated with a single postdivision wall. Note that multiple ER strands extend from the adjoining cells and converge at the entrances of PD, where they can be traced across the wall. An enlargement of a region of cortical ER (Fig. 3I) shows that desmotubules are labeled with RTNLB6. A movie depicting the three-dimensional arrangement of ER associated with PD is shown in Supplemental Video S1. The optical sections shown in Supplemental Figure S2 were taken 150 nm apart in the axial dimension and show that a single RTNLB6-labeled desmotubule can be tracked as it crosses the cell wall. We used FRAP to study the mobility of RTNLBs in the developing cell plate. We compared the leading edge of the cell plate, where the RTNLB signal was diffuse (Fig. 4B), with the middle of the cell plate, where RTNLB distribution was tightly confined (and where PD formation had presumably begun; CITATION; CITATION). We found a higher rate of fluorescence recovery at the edge of the cell plate compared with the center, indicative of reduced RTNLB mobility during the formation of primary PD (Fig. 4A). At the completion of cytokinesis, we found that a strong RTNLB signal remained on the new cell wall (Fig. 1L). We then plasmolyzed cv BY2 cells expressing RTNLB3 or RTNLB6 and performed FRAP on the ER associated with the primary PD in the cell wall. There was no fluorescence recovery in this location, although ER in the center of the cell showed a characteristic fluorescence recovery (Fig. 4D). As cv BY2 cells often grow in linear chains, we also photobleached the ER of entire cells and monitored the bleached cell for fluorescence recovery. In this scenario, the only source of fluorescence is from neighboring cells, across the intervening PD (CITATION). We failed to detect a return of fluorescence into the bleached cell, indicating that, even though RTNLBs are present in the desmotubule, this structure does not form a conduit for RTNLB mobility between cells (Fig. 4, E and F). [[FIGURE]] Next, we utilized cv BY2 lines stably expressing a truncation of RTNLB3, comprising the first two transmembrane domains and cytosolic loop but lacking the C-terminal region predicted to form two transmembrane domains (RTNLB3t2; CITATION). The ER in these cells was less tubular than in cells expressing the full-length protein (Supplemental Fig. S1B). This truncated protein was not strongly recruited to the cell plate at cytokinesis and remained associated with the cytoplasmic ER (Fig. 5, A and B). We then performed FRAP on cells expressing RTNLB3t2. RTNLB3t2-YFP fluorescence in the cell plate of these cells recovered much more quickly than in those expressing the full-length RTNLB-YFP proteins (compare Fig. 5C with Fig. 4, A and B) and also at faster rates than lumenal GFP-HDEL (Fig. 5C). [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seeds were sterilized with 10% (v/v) bleach, rinsed once in 70% (v/v) ethanol, and then rinsed four times in sterile distilled, deionized water. Unless stated otherwise, seeds were plated in petri dishes on Murashige and Skoog medium with 1% (w/v) Suc, solidified with 1.2% (w/v) phytoagar, and grown in 16-h photoperiods with 200 μE m−2 s−1 at 18°C to 22°C. The generation of both the RTNLB-YFP and RTNLB3 truncation constructs has been described previously (CITATION). RTNLB3 and RTNLB6 were amplified by PCR using clones from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, recombined into Gateway vector pDONR201, and then both were recombined into binary vector pGWB405, creating C-terminal GFP fusions (CITATION). All binary vectors were then transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3101 and then into Arabidopsis (Columbia-0) using the floral dip method (CITATION). Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) ‘BY2’ cell lines (CITATION) were cultured aseptically in liquid medium containing 4.3 g L−1 Murashige and Skoog Basal Medium (Sigma; M5519), 200 μg mL−1 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 30 g L−1 Suc. Cells were grown in the dark at 28°C on an orbital shaker and subcultured to fresh medium weekly. RTNLB3-GFP and RTNLB6-GFP transgenic lines were generated by A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation with the binary vectors described above. A total of 40 μL of 20 mm acetosyringone was added to 40 mL of 3-d-old cv BY2 cell culture, and cells were pipetted up and down 20 times to induce minor cell damage. The cells were then mixed with 100 μL of the appropriate A. tumefaciens overnight culture and incubated at 28°C in the dark for 3 d. Cells were then washed three times in sterile medium, resuspended in 5 mL, and plated on medium solidified with 0.75% (w/v) phytoagar, 50 μg mL−1 cefotaxime, and 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin. Plates were incubated for 3 to 4 weeks. Resultant calli were then subcultured onto fresh selective medium to confirm antibiotic resistance before expression was assessed by fluorescence microscopy and positive cell lines transferred and maintained in liquid culture. Cells were imaged at day 4 post subculture for cell plate studies and plasmolysis and days 4 to 6 for FRAP. Seedlings and cv BY2 cells were imaged live on slides using either an SP2 confocal laser-scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems) with 40× and 63× water-immersion lenses (HCX PLAPO CS; Leica Microsystems) or a Zeiss LSM510 Meta confocal laser-scanning microscope with 40× and 63× oil-immersion objectives. For cell plate images, 3-d-old Arabidopsis seedlings were partially synchronized by transferring to medium containing 2 mm hydroxyurea for 15 to 17 h before imaging the roots. Arabidopsis roots were stained with 10 μg mL−1 propidium iodide, where indicated. The cv BY2 cells were stained with 8.5 μg mL−1 Calcafluor White for 1 h or 2 μm FM4-64 (Synaptored) for 10 min, and then medium was removed and replaced with fresh medium before imaging or plasmolysis. The cv BY2 cells were plasmolyzed in a 0.45 m solution of mannitol in liquid cv BY2 medium for 20 min and then mounted on slides in the osmoticum to maintain plasmolysis throughout imaging. FRAP analyses were conducted either on a Zeiss LSM510 Meta confocal laser-scanning microscope or a Leica SP2 confocal laser-scanning microscope under the 63× objective using rapid switching between low-intensity imaging and high-intensity bleach mode. Prebleach and postbleach images were collected using 40% intensity of the 488-nm laser. Bleaching of the selected region, either an entire cell, a cell wall, or square regions of interest on the middle or edges of cell plates, was achieved with five to 10 scans at 100% intensity of the 488-nm laser. Subsequent recovery was monitored for up to 5 min, dependent on the experiment. Relative levels of fluorescence were normalized to the first postbleach reading. Data are means of at least nine replicates with error bars indicating the se. 3D-SIM was fully described by CITATION Briefly, the 3D-SIM images were obtained using a Deltavision OMX Blaze microscope (GE Healthcare) equipped with 405-, 488-, and 593-nm solid-state lasers and a UPlanSApochromat 100× 1.4 numerical aperture oil immersion objective (Olympus). To maintain the delicate ER structure, cv BY2 cells were imaged live. Exposure times were typically between 100 and 200 ms, and the power of each laser was adjusted to achieve optimal intensities of between 1,000 and 3,000 counts in a raw image of 15-bit dynamic range of the Edge sCMOS camera (PCO). As photobleaching of the GFP was an issue in the live cells, exposure times and laser power were adjusted to minimal levels. Unprocessed image stacks were composed of 15 images per z section (five phase-shifted images for each of three interference pattern angles). Superresolution three-dimensional image stacks were reconstructed with SoftWorx 6.0 (GE) using channel-specific optical transfer functions and Wiener filter setting of 0.002 (0.005 for the 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole channel). Images from the different color channels, recorded on separate cameras, were registered with the SoftWorx 6.0 alignment tool (GE). Sequence data for genes in this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL databases using the following accession numbers: RTNLB1, At4g23630; RTNLB2, At4g11220; RTNLB3, At1g64090; RTNLB4, At5g41600; and RTNLB6, At3g61560. The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. RTNLB3 can constrict the ER in BY2 cells during interphase, whereas a truncated version cannot. Supplemental Figure S2. RTNLB6-GFP labels desmotubules in BY2 cells. Supplemental Video S1. 3D reconstruction of ER labeled with RTNLB6-GFP shows close association with PD in BY2 cells.
