!~ABS~! The plasma membrane is an important compartment that undergoes dynamic changes in composition upon external or internal stimuli. The dynamic subcompartmentation of proteins in ordered low-density (DRM) and disordered high-density (DSM) membrane phases is hypothesized to require interactions with cytoskeletal components. Here, we systematically analyzed the effects of actin or tubulin disruption on the distribution of proteins between membrane density phases. We used a proteomic screen to identify candidate proteins with altered submembrane location, followed by biochemical or cell biological characterization in Arabidopsis thaliana. We found that several proteins, such as plasma membrane ATPases, receptor kinases, or remorins resulted in a differential distribution between membrane density phases upon cytoskeletal disruption. Moreover, in most cases, contrasting effects were observed: Disruption of actin filaments largely led to a redistribution of proteins from DRM to DSM membrane fractions while disruption of tubulins resulted in general depletion of proteins from the membranes. We conclude that actin filaments are necessary for dynamic movement of proteins between different membrane phases and that microtubules are not necessarily important for formation of microdomains as such, but rather they may control the protein amount present in the membrane phases. 
!~RES~! The aim of this study was to characterize effects of cytoskeletal disruption on protein distribution between low-density sterol-rich microdomains (as biochemically extracted in the form of DRM) and general other higher-density membrane phases (DSM).  Two major phytosterols, sitosterol and campesterol, were identified and quantified in DRM and DSM fractions, with generally higher values in DRM fractions. Generally, these sterols contribute to about 20% of the plasma membrane lipids. No other typical membrane sterols were identified but rather organic acids, sugars, alkanes, and many unidentified compounds containing an alkyl group were characterized in the GC-TOF analysis. In both fractions, a variety of soluble compounds like ethyl-hexanoic acid, hydroxy-pyridine, octadecane, diethylene glycol, boric acid, or phosphoric acid were detected (Fig. 2A). These other compounds may have masked the detection of other lower abundant lipids. Most of these substances, except for ethanolamine, were considered as copurifying contaminants since they were not known to be membrane components.  [[FIGURE]] The cytoskeletal disruption did not result in statistically significant relative and absolute changes in any of the identified substances. Both sterols grouped in the same hierarchical cluster of compounds. The level of sterols in DRM as well as in DSM fractions remained unaltered in response to cytochalasin D and oryzalin treatment, and as expected, sterol levels were higher on average in DRM fractions (Fig. 2B). Thus, we conclude that disruption of actin filaments or disruption of microtubules does not cause a drastic change in membrane sterol composition.  Detergent-resistant membrane preparations are prone to copurifying nonsterol-dependent proteins and may be considered an enrichment but not a purification of sterol-rich membrane microdomains (CITATION). In order to robustly establish a filter for identification of true effects of cytoskeletal disruption on changes in protein distribution between cellular membrane phases, reference protein lists of know sterol-dependent proteins, as well as from intracellular membrane proteins and soluble proteins, were established (CITATION). In the cytochalasin D experimental series, 557 proteins were identified in DRM fractions (five replicates), a total of 918 proteins were identified in DSM fractions (four replicates), and 588 and 1,558 proteins were identified from intracellular membranes (IM, two replicates) and as soluble proteins (SOL, four replicates). For oryzalin treatment experiments, 449 proteins were identified in detergent-resistant membranes (five replicates), 996 proteins in detergent-soluble membranes (five replicates), 1,313 proteins in intracellular membranes (four replicates), and 776 proteins as soluble proteins from two biological replicates (supplemental Fig. 2A). Separation quality of cellular fractions was confirmed by the fact that in almost all fractions collected, a large number of proteins was identified in a single fraction only (unique proteins). The largest overlap between collected fractions was represented by the proteins from neighboring compartments, for example, 154 or 204 proteins overlapping between DRM and DSM fractions while only 37 or one protein was in common for detergent-resistant membranes and soluble fraction (supplemental Fig. 3A).  The identified proteins were then assigned to expected cellular location based on SUBA3 (CITATION). As expected, in both drug treatment series, the majority of proteins identified in the DRM fraction had a plasma membrane location, while proteins identified in the IM fraction largely were of mitochondrial, plastidial, and endoplasmic reticulum location. The SOL fraction contained the highest amount of soluble proteins (supplemental Fig. 3B). Furthermore, filtering out all proteins that were found in more than one fraction enriched the fraction-specific protein groups at an even higher degree (unique proteins in supplemental Fig. 3B). In further analyses, proteins were excluded if their abundance was highest in IM or SOL fractions, even when detected in DRM or DSF fractions. This filtering procedure was validated in detail in a previous study (CITATION).  To confirm the specificity of cytochalasin D and oryzalin treatment on the disruption of actin filaments and tubulins, respectively, the disappearance of actin or tubulin protein in the DRM fraction was monitored (Fig. 3A). Cytochalasin D treatment depleted the sample from ACT3 within 30 min of treatment, but a less strong effect was observed for ACT2. Oryzalin treatment efficiently depleted different tubulin isoforms from the DRM fraction in a concentration-dependent manner.  [[FIGURE]] Secondly, specificity of the drug treatment was monitored using the dual-labeled line for actin and tubulin (Fig. 3B). Cytochalasin D treatment of 1 h was already enough to significantly disrupt the majority of actin filaments, but some actin strands still remained visible. Microtubule structures were not affected by the cytochalasin D treatment. Oryzalin treatment at a concentration of 5 μm for 1 h completely disintegrated typical microtubule structures, while actin filaments remained intact. Thus, the drug treatments applied in our experiments specifically affected only one component of the cytoskeleton.  Cluster analysis of the abundance profiles of DRM proteins in response to cytochalasin D time course treatment revealed five major response groups (supplemental Fig. 4A). The largest number of proteins (199 proteins) was found in cluster 3, with a tendency for an increase of abundance in response to the treatment. However, these were mainly cytosolic proteins (66%) and very few plasma membrane proteins (6%). The cluster with the highest fraction of plasma membrane proteins (46%) was cluster 1 (144 proteins), with a tendency of decreased abundance in the DRM fraction. Clusters with a high content of cytosolic proteins (clusters 2 and 3) particularly contained proteins involved in protein synthesis (ribosomal proteins). Such proteins are known copurifying proteins in DRM preparations (CITATION). In contrast, clusters 1, 4, and 5, with high fraction of membrane proteins particularly, were rich in proteins with transport and signaling functions (these functions made up 18 and 15% of all proteins in cluster 1).  Similarly, oryzalin treatment over the range of concentrations resulted in differential responses of proteins, which could be separated into five response clusters (supplemental Fig. 4B) containing 51 (cluster 4) to 113 proteins (cluster 2). Proteins in cluster 1 showed an increased abundance with increased concentration of oryzalin, but these were particularly proteins with cytosolic location such as ribosomal proteins. Proteins in two clusters with a high fraction of membrane proteins (62% in cluster 2 and 67% in cluster 4) displayed a decreased abundance profile in DRM with increasing oryzalin concentration but at different slope. These clusters were particularly enriched in proteins with signaling function (3% in cluster 2) or transporters (40% in cluster 4).  However, cytochalasin D or oryzalin treatment of cell cultures did not affect global protein abundance levels and distribution of proteins identified in the IM and SOL fractions (supplemental Fig. 5). These findings suggest that the observed drug-induced protein abundance changes for proteins identified in DRM and DSM fractions were mainly due to local redistributions within the membrane and not due to global redistributions between compartments based on disturbed membrane trafficking.  In order to identify candidate DRM proteins significantly affected by the cytoskeletal disruptions, three filtering criteria were applied to the above data set: (i) proteins were required to be identified in DRM fractions in at least one replicate of this study, (ii) proteins were required to show significant response to drug treatment (ANOVA p value cutoff .05 after multiple testing (CITATION)), and (iii) have evidence for sterol-dependent membrane location from previous work (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). Based on these criteria, for cytochalasin D treatment, from the 557 proteins identified in DRM fractions, only 50 proteins had previously been confirmed also as sterol-dependent proteins (Fig. 4). For oryzalin treatment, out of 449 proteins identified in DRM fractions, 66 proteins were also characterized as sterol-dependent. From this overlap, 22 proteins were found to significantly display an altered abundance distribution between DRM and DSF upon cytochalasin D treatment, and 13 proteins were found to significantly change their distribution profile in response to oryzalin. In most cases, cytoskeleton disruption, particularly treatment with cytochalasin D, induced a reduced abundance of proteins in sterol-enriched DRM fractions with an accompanied increased abundance of that protein in the sterol-depleted DSM fraction (DRM/DSM ratios in Table I). This may indicate that these proteins within the membrane moved from sterol-enriched phases into sterol-depleted membrane phases, particularly after disruption of actin filaments.  [[FIGURE]] [[TABLE]] Out of the 22 proteins with significantly altered distribution between DRM and DSM upon cytochalasin D treatment (Table I; supplemental Fig. 6A), there were eight proteins involved in membrane transport, four signaling proteins, two oxidases, two proteins with functions in stress responses, a remorin protein, and few others with unassigned functions. Among the 13 proteins with significant response to oryzalin, we found seven transporters, three signaling proteins, a remorin, one protein involved in abiotic stress responses, and one protein with unspecified role in plant development (Table I; supplemental Fig. 6B). Among all these proteins, nine proteins showed altered distribution between DRM and DSM upon both treatments, namely disruption of actin filaments as well as upon disruption of microtubules (supplemental Fig. 7). Thereby, six proteins (AHA1, AHA2, ERD4, RLK902, AT3G61260, AT3G02880) were depleted from DRM in both drugs, one protein (PATL1) increased in DRM fractions upon both drugs, and two proteins (AVP1 and VHA-A3) showed opposite behavior upon actin or microtubule disruption.  Among the proteins with significantly altered DRM/DSM distribution profiles (Table I), we identified members of the H+-ATPase family (AHA1, AHA2, AHA11). To study the biochemical effect of altered membrane phase recruitment, enzymatic activity assays were carried out in control and drug-treated cells. Thereby, the activity measurements of the sterol-rich DRM fractions were compared with activity measurements of total plasma membrane to relate differences in activity to differences in submembrane location (Fig. 5). Cytochalasin D treatment lead to a depletion of all three isoforms of the H+-ATPase from the sterol-rich DRM preparations (Fig. 5A), and this was accompanied with an increase in the measured ATPase activity in that fraction, especially in cytochalasin D treatments of 1 h (Fig. 5B). Activity measured in total plasma membrane remained unaltered upon the disruption of actin filaments and was generally lower than in sterol-rich DRM fractions. These findings suggest that actin filament disruption leads to recruitment of H+-ATPase molecules from more rigid DRM fractions to DSM (supplemental Fig. 6A, Table I), and this relocation is associated with an increased activity of the protein remaining in DRM. In contrast, oryzalin treatment also removed ATPase isoforms from the DRM fraction (Fig. 5C), but no accompanied increase in DSM was observed (supplemental Fig. 6B, Table I). The disruption of microtubules with oryzalin lead to a decreased H+-ATPase activity in the DRM fraction and increased activity levels in the whole plasma membrane (Fig. 5D). It seems that microtubule disruption removed the plasma membrane ATPases from DRM fractions without associated relocation to DSM. In general, based on the enzyme activity measurements in combination with the resulting abundance distribution between DRM and DSM (Table I), we conclude that alterations in the location of proteins within membrane phases may significantly affect their activity either through changes in abundance or by creating activating/inactivating interaction environment.  [[FIGURE]] The receptor kinase AT3G02880 was found to be depleted from DRM upon treatment with cytochalasin D as well as upon treatment with oryzalin (supplemental Fig. 8A, Table I). The effects of drug treatment on location of AT3G02880 were analyzed using Arabidopsis seedlings expression a GFP-fusion under the CaMV35S promoter (supplemental Fig. 8B). In untreated seedlings, AT3G02880 showed more or less uniform distribution across the plasma membrane. Interestingly, the uniform distribution of fluorescent signal was exempt in line-shaped regions, resembling the cellular pattern of microtubule strands. We suggest that these exempt darker areas follow the distribution of microtubules below the membrane bilayer. This statement is supported by the finding that we did not record such distribution in oryzalin-treated seedlings, whereas it was still visible after treatment with cytochalasin D. Occasionally, locations in punctate patterns (arrows in supplemental Fig. 8C) were visible.  Treatment of cells with cytochalasin D did not lead to large overall changes in location pattern of AT3G02880 but enhanced the appearance of the punctate location. Treatment with oryzalin resulted in a more uniform pattern, losing the cytoskeleton negative print in the location pattern and resulting in smaller punctate structures.  Remorins are plasma membrane proteins that were shown to locate to sterol-rich membrane microdomains using cell biological and biochemical approaches (CITATION, CITATION), and they are highly enriched in DRM preparation (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). In our experiments, cytoskeletal disruptions led to altered distributions of remorin AtREM1.2 between DRM and DSM (Fig. 6A). These findings from the large-scale proteomic approach were confirmed by protein gel blot analysis of four fractions across the sucrose gradient separating sterol-rich DRM from sterol-depleted DSM (Fig. 6B). Particularly, when actin filaments were disintegrated by cytochalasin D treatment, remorin abundance clearly decreased in DRM fractions and increased in DSM. Disruption of microtubules by oryzalin also led to a depletion of remorins AtREM1.2 and AtREM1.3 from DRM, but the accompanied increase in DSM was less prominent compared with the observations in cytochalasin D treatment (Fig. 6C). Location of AtREM1.2 in untreated Arabidopsis seedlings was found in punctate patterns, as observed previously (CITATION, CITATION). Treatment with cytochalasin D completely disrupted this punctate location pattern to a more uniform distribution with smaller punctate patterns of lower intensity. In contrast, treatment with oryzalin enhanced punctate location of AtREM1.2 to bigger dots of higher intensity.  [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Seeds of an A. thaliana complementation line with YFP-tagged (yellow fluorescent protein) remorin 1.2 based on SALK line 117637 were obtained as a courtesy of Dr. Thomas Ott from Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany. Homozygous lines of A. thaliana expressing GFP-tagged leucin-rich repeat receptor-like kinase (LRR-RLK) At3G02880.1 under 35S promoter were obtained as a courtesy from Xuna Wu, University of Hohenheim, Germany.  Seeds of an A. thaliana dual-labeled line for actin and tubulin were obtained as a courtesy of AG Persson from the Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology in Golm, Germany. This line allowed observation of the structure of microtubules and actin filaments in the same plant at the same time. The dual-labeled line was created by transformation of Col-0 with pART27 vector containing GFP-FABD2 fusion construct under 35S promoter together with a gene for kanamycin resistance (CITATION). This line was subsequently crossed with another line that was transformed with a Gateway vector containing TUA5 fused to mCherry-RFP under 35S promoter together with genes for kanamycin resistance (CITATION).  Sterilized seeds of YFP-tagged remorin lines were grown on 1/2 Murashige–Skoog medium containing 1.5% agarose, 1% sucrose, and kanamycin. Seedlings transferred on plates were left for 5 days in a light-dark cycle with a 16-h photoperiod at 23 °C. Prior to the performed experiments, seedlings were carefully moved into the cavity of a six-well plate filled with 1/2 liquid MS medium with 1% sucrose and placed on a rotary shaker (50 rpm).  Cell suspension cultures were established from A. thaliana Col-0 leaf callus as described (CITATION). They were grown in flasks in full JPL medium under constant light conditions at 80–100 mol m−2s−1 at 23 °C with rotary shaking at 120 rpm. Cells were subcultured every 7 days. In order to perform experiments, cell cultures were pooled from and independent flask and subsequently divided into desired numbers of replicates for treatment. In general, treatment experiments were carried out in at least three biological replicates, and results are presented as an average of these.  Experiments were performed with cytochalasin D, which is a potent inhibitor of actin polymerization. Cytochalasin D binds to G-actin and prevents polymerization of actin monomers (CITATION), as well as to the barbed end of actin filaments, which inhibits the association of hew monomers at that end (CITATION). The second drug used in the experiments was oryzalin (3,5-dinitro-N4, N4-dipropylsulfanilimide), which is a selective pre-emergence, surface-applied dinitroaniline herbicide with rather low toxicity to animals and fungi. This drug acts as a microtubule depolymerizing agent, and it perturbs all microtubule-related processes in plant cells (CITATION, CITATION). Both inhibitory effects were shown to be reversible (CITATION). Stock solutions of cytochalasin D and oryzalin were dissolved in DMSO. The following experimental conditions were applied:  Cytochalasin D treatment: Cells treated with cytochalasin D may react to the loss of the links between the plasma membrane and actin filaments by creating more filaments that might compensate for the initial depolymerizing effect of cytochalasin D (CITATION). In order to evaluate this effect, time points instead of different concentrations were used. Cell cultures were treated with cytochalasin D in concentration of 500 nm for different periods: 30 min, 60 min, 90 min, and 120 min. The concentration used was far lower than the minimal concentration known to disrupt cytoplasmic streaming (CITATION). Control samples were treated with respective volumes of DMSO solution. The concentration of DMSO in final solutions was not higher than 0.1%. After treatment, cells were filtered and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen.  Oryzalin treatment: According to the literature, oryzalin has an impact on the normal structure of the microtubules already at nanomolar concentrations but often requiring long exposure (CITATION, CITATION). In order to perform experiments at similar time frames as the cytochalasin D treatment, we selected increasing oryzalin concentrations applied for the duration of 1 h. Cell cultures were treated with different concentrations of oryzalin (1 μm, 2 μm, 5 μm, and 10 μm) for 1 h. Instead of a disrupting agent, respective amount of DMSO was added to control samples. The concentration of DMSO in final solutions was not higher than 0.1%. After treatment, cells were filtered and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen.  Activity of the plasma membrane H+-ATPase in DRM and DSM fractions was measured by the malachite green colorimetric assay (CITATION). The standardization of different samples was based on total protein content, which was evaluated by the NanoOrange Protein Quantitation Kit (Invitrogen, Germany) according to the instructions. Specific inhibitors of P-type and V-type ATPases were used to distinguish the specific activity of selected enzyme from the background activity of the sample: Na3VO4 as plasma membrane ATPase inhibitor, EDTA as inhibition of Ca2+-ATPases, NaN3 as inhibition of mitochondrial ATPases, and bafilomycin A1 as inhibitor of V-ATPases (CITATION).  In order to perform enzymatic activity measurement, 1 μg of extracted protein was used per reaction mixture. The plate was placed on a shaker at 37 °C. Reaction was stopped after 1 or 2 h by adding MG-AM-TRIT [three volumes of MG solution (2 mm malachite green in Milipore water) and one volume of AM solution (0.034 m ammonium molybdate in 4 N HCl, 0.1% Triton X-100) solution to each well. Addition of sodium citrate to a final concentration of 3% inhibited the color development. The change in phosphate concentration was measured by absorption using the wavelength of 630 nm.  In general, microsomal fractions, plasma membrane, and DRM/DSF fractions were prepared as described in detail (CITATION). Frozen plant material was powderized, mixed with two volumes of extraction buffer (100 mm Hepes-KOH (pH 7.5); 250 mm sucrose; 10% (w/v) glycerol; 5 mm EDTA; 5 mm ascorbic acid; 0.6% (w/v) PVP K-25; freshly added: 5 mm DTT; 1 mm PMSF; protease inhibitor mixture (SIGMA, Germany)), and stirred gently on ice until complete homogenization was achieved. The homogenate was then filtered through one layer of Miracloth (Merck, Germany), and cell debris was spun down at 10,000 g for 8 min. The supernatant was taken and centrifuged at 100,000 g for 30 min. After this step, microsomes were acquired in the pellet and soluble proteins (SOL fraction) in supernatant (Fig. 1). The microsomal fraction was solubilized in resuspension buffer (5 mm potassium phosphate; 0.33 m sucrose; 3 mm KCl; 0.1 mm EDTA; freshly added: 1 mm DTT, 1 mm PMSF) and then deposited onto a two-phase system of polyethyleneglycol and dextran (CITATION). After gentle mixing and centrifugation at 1,000 g for 10 min, the lower green phase contained intracellular membranes (IM fraction) while the upper phase contained cell plasma membrane (PM fraction). The latter was collected, diluted with five volumes of resuspension buffer and centrifuged again at 200,000 g for 1 h. The obtained pellet was then resuspended in TNE buffer (25 mm Tris-HCl pH 7.5; 150 mm NaCl; 5 mm EDTA; 1 mm DTT), and protein concentration was measured using Bradford assay (CITATION). At this step, an aliquot of the plasma membrane protein was taken for analysis (Fig. 1).  [[FIGURE]] Solubilized in TNE buffer, the plasma membrane was subsequently treated with Triton X-100 in a concentration between 0.5 and 1% and in a ratio of proteins to Triton of 1:15. The detergent treatment was applied for 30 min on ice with shaking. Detergent-resistant and detergent-soluble membranes created after Triton X-100 were separated by centrifugation for 18 h through a sucrose step gradient (from the bottom: 1.8 m, 1.6 m, 1.4 m, 0.15 m). After centrifugation, a low-density band was observed as a white ring at the interface of the 0.15 m and 1.4 m sucrose phases (CITATION). A fraction of 1 ml containing the ring was collected as DRM fraction, and 1 ml from the bottom of the gradient was collected as DSM fraction.  For mass spectrometry: Proteins from collected fractions were purified by methanol-chloroform method. Initially, four volumes of methanol, one volume of chloroform, and three volumes of water were added to the sample, and after each addition, the sample was vortexed. Next, the sample was centrifuged for 15 min at room temperature. The upper phase was removed, and the lower phase was diluted with three volumes of methanol. Protein was then pelleted by centrifugation for 15 min at maximum speed (20,800 g).  For enzymatic measurements: The recovery of proteins from collected sucrose gradient fractions was based on dissolving the dense sucrose with large volumes of buffer TNE and subsequently pelleting membranes by ultracentrifugation at 200,000 g for 1 h.  Purified proteins from preceding steps were dissolved in 6 m urea/2 M thiourea, pH 8, which causes denaturation of proteins. Subsequently, disulfide bonds were released by treatment with DTT, and spontaneous oxidation was prevented by carbamidomethylation with iodoacetamide. Lys-C and trypsin were applied for the digestion of proteins and creation of low-molecular-weight tryptic peptides as described (CITATION). After trypsin digestion, samples were desalted on C18 Stop And Go Extraction tips (C18 Empore Disks, 3 m) (CITATION), dried in a vacuum concentrator, and resuspended in 1% trifluoroacetic acid, 5% acetonitrile just before loading onto the liquid chromatography column.  Digested and desalted peptides were analyzed by LC/MS/MS using nanoflow HPLC (Easy nLC, Thermo Scientific) and an Orbitrap hybrid mass spectrometer (LTQ-Orbitrap XL, Thermo Scientific) as mass analyzer. Peptides were eluted from a 15 cm long, 75 m wide analytical column filled with C18 beads (Reprosil C18, Dr. Maisch GmbH, Germany) on a linear gradient running from 5% to 80% acetonitrile in 90 min at a flow rate of 250 nl/min and sprayed directly into the mass spectrometer. Proteins were identified by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) by information-dependent acquisition of fragmentation spectra of multiple-charged peptides. Up to five data-dependent MS/MS spectra were acquired in the linear ion trap for each FTMS full scan spectrum acquired at 60,000 full-width half-maximum resolution settings with an overall cycle time of 1 s.  For raw file peak extraction and protein identification, we used MaxQuant software (CITATION) (version 1.4.2.1) with A. thaliana TAIR10 protein sequences (35,386 entries) used by the search engine Andromeda (CITATION). The following additional parameters were applied: trypsin as cleaving enzyme; 10 ppm peptide mass tolerance; 0.8 Da MS/MS tolerance; maximal two missed cleavages allowed, threshold for validation of peptides set to 0.01 using a decoy database, acetylation at N-terminal of proteins, and oxidation of methionine set as variable modification, carbamidomethylation of cysteine set as a fixed modification, “label-free quantification” marked, “match between runs” marked, minimum peptide length of six amino acids, and retention time correlation enabled (time window of 2 min). Spectra of identified peptides are available in supplemental Fig. 2. Known contaminants, such as keratins, were excluded from further analysis.  Peptide lists derived from MaxQuant (evidence.txt) were processed by an R-based script (cRacker (CITATION)) allowing for automated and standardized processing. Peptides with the assigned MaxQuant score below 30 and peptides that were quantified in less than 90% of all fraction-specific samples were filtered out. The principal steps of the normalization and quantitation were: (i) All peptide intensities within each sample were normalized to fraction of total ion-intensity sums. (ii) To compensate effects of normalization due to the number of detected peptides per sample, intensity was proportionally corrected to the reciprocal number of identified peptides in each sample using the integrated normalization option in cRacker. (iii) Peptide intensities with missing values in more than the permitted numbers of samples within replicates of each fraction were filtered out. (iv) Outliers exclusion was used to lower the influence of extreme peptide intensity values on the average protein intensity. (v) Remaining normalized peptide intensities were z-score scaled and mean averaged.  Protein concentration in different fractions after chloroform/methanol extraction was evaluated by NanoOrange (Invitrogen) according to the instructions and equal amounts of proteins (10 μg) per sample were loaded onto 10% polyacrylamide gels. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and protein gel blots were performed as described (CITATION). The membrane was blocked in blocking solution overnight at 4 °C and was subsequently washed three times with PBS-T (0.2% Tween-20, 10 mm NaCl, 2.7 mm KCl, 10 mm Na2HPO4, and 2 mm KH2PO4, pH 7.4) and later incubated with the primary antibody αGFP at the concentration of 1:10,000 in PBS-T for 1 h at room temperature. After additional washing steps, the secondary antibody alkaline phosphatase coupled anti-mouse IgG was used at the concentration of 1:10,000 in PBS-T for 1 h at room temperature. For detection of the signal, blots were incubated in alkaline phosphatase-detection buffer (pH 9.5) with addition of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3′-indolyphosphate p-toluidine salt and nitro-blue tetrazolium chloride.  After density gradient centrifugation for the separation of DRM and DSM, a volume of 1 ml for the low-density band (DRM) as well as 1 ml from the bottom of the gradient (DSM) was transferred to the clean 15 ml falcon tube. For each 1 ml of sample, 5 μl of 5 mm 3-hydroxy-5-cholestane (cholestanol) was added, which reflected 10 μg of this compound and served as an internal standard. Lipids were extracted by the chloroform-methanol method (CITATION). To each sample 3.75 ml of 1:2 (v/v) CHCl3:CH3OH were added, then 1.25 ml of CHCl3, and finally 1.25 ml of water. Tubes were vortexed thoroughly after each solvent addition. The final mixture was centrifuged at 200 g for 5 min at room temperature, which resulted in a separation into upper aqueous and bottom organic phases. The aqueous solution was removed using a Pasteur pipette, and the organic phase was washed with “authentic upper phase” (prepared by performing blank chloroform-methanol extraction on water). The cleaned organic phase was subsequently transferred in batches of 500 μl to a smaller tube and dried in a vacuum concentrator. By repeatedly drying down small volumes, the spread of extracted lipids around the whole inner surface of the tube was minimized.  The profiling of soluble metabolites was performed as described previously (CITATION) by gas chromatography coupled to electron impact ionization/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-EI/TOF-MS). Dried lipid species were methoxyaminated and trimethylsilylated manually prior to GC-EI/TOF-MS analysis. Analysis was performed using an Agilent 6890N24 gas chromatograph (Agilent Technologies, Boeblingen, Germany) with splitless injection onto a FactorFour VF-5ms capillary column, 30 m length, 0.25 mm inner diameter, 0.25 m film thickness (Varian-Agilent Technologies) connected to a Pegasus III time-of-flight mass spectrometer (LECO Instrumente GmbH, Moenchengladbach, Germany). Retention indices were calibrated by addition of a C10, C12, C15, C18, C19, C22, C28, C32, and C36 n-alkane mixture to each sample (CITATION).  GC-EI/TOF-MS chromatograms were acquired, visually controlled, baseline corrected, and exported in NetCDF file format using ChromaTOF software (Version 4.22; LECO, St. Joseph, MI). GC-MS data processing into a standardized numerical data matrix and compound identification were performed using the TagFinder software (CITATION, CITATION). Compounds were identified by mass spectral and retention time index matching to the reference collection of the Golm metabolome database (http://gmd.mpimpgolm.mpg.de/) (CITATION⇓–CITATION). Guidelines for manually supervised metabolite identification were the presence of at least three specific mass fragments per compound and a retention index deviation within 1.0%. All mass features of an experiment were normalized by sample fresh weight, internal standard (C22), and were then maximum scaled.  Fluorescence imaging shown in the study was performed as described below. The fluorescent signal of GFP, YFP, and mCherry was recorded using Leica TCS-SP2 system coupled with DM6000 inverted light microscope and HCX PL APO 63.0 × 1.20 W CORR objective. The excitation was achieved using 488 nm argon laser for GFP, 514 nm argon laser for YFP, and 561 nm diode laser for mCherry. Resulting emission was separated using triple dichroic TD 488/543/633 for GFP, dichroic RSP 500 for YFP, and double dichroic DD488/543 for mCherry. Separated light was collected and amplified using PMT detectors between 502–550 nm for GFP, 505–550 for YFP, and 577–650 nm for mCherry. Images were acquired with resolution of 1,024 × 1,024 pixels. Pinhole was set between 0.295 and 1 Airy unit.  All statistical tests on proteomic data, such as hierarchical clustering and k-means clustering, were automated and performed by the R-based script cRacker (CITATION). Information on subcellular location was taken from SUBA3 (CITATION), and functional annotation was done according to MAPMAN (CITATION). ANOVA analysis was used to test for significant differences between quantitative values on the protein level in the various samples and treatments. Differences with the p value < .05 in comparison to the control samples were taken as significant. Statistical assessments on sterol and metabolite data, such as hierarchical cluster analysis, heat map, and other data visualizations, were performed with the multiexperiment viewer software MeV (Version 4.6.2) (CITATION, CITATION). 
