!~ABS~! Seed storage proteins protect seed against oxidative stress during seed ageing.
!~RES~! The germination ability of AR and 4-year-old (aged) seeds from four genotypes was investigated. The genotypes used are the Arabidopsis background line Ler and three near isogenic lines (NILs) that contain introgression fragments of Cvi, An-1 and Sha accessions, at the position of the earlier identified seed longevity QTL, NILGAAS1-Cvi, NILGAAS2-An-1, and NILGAAS5-Sha, respectively. Upon storage, all genotypes showed a significant reduction in germination percentage, but with a different level of sensitivity to ageing (CITATION). NILGAAS1 and NILGAAS2 had better seed longevity (Gmax=89.3% and 79.6%, respectively) compared with Ler (Gmax=60.7%), whereas NILGAAS5 was less storable (Gmax=37.7%). These results confirmed the seed longevity phenotypes described by CITATIONet al. (2012). Proteomic profiling for AR and aged seeds was performed to identify mechanisms and modifications associated with the loss of germination ability during seed dry storage. Total soluble protein extracts were separated using 2D PAGE (CITATION) and seven pair-wise comparisons were made (Supplementary Fig. S1). Pair-wise comparisons between the two physiological states (aged versus AR) for each genotype revealed protein spots that were affected by ageing (57 for Ler, 89 for NILGAAS1, 109 for NILGAAS2, and 126 for NILGAAS5). The three NILs contain introgression fragments at different genome positions and exhibit different levels of seed longevity. The differences in seed longevity could result from proteome variation already present in the AR seeds, which can be revealed by pair-wise comparisons between the NILs and Ler. Comparison with the AR Ler seed proteome allowed the identification of 51, 16 and 11 genotype-specific protein spots for NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 and NILGAAS5, respectively. Some of these protein spots (8, 2 and 2, respectively) overlapped with the aged versus AR comparison (CITATION). A total of 309 differentially accumulated protein spots were detected in the seven pair-wise comparisons (Supplementary Fig. S1). Principal component analysis (PCA) on the 309 protein spots separated the samples into two groups which represented the two physiological states (AR and aged seeds; CITATION). The time component (storage) accounted for 24% of the variation and the genotype component explained 11%. NILGAAS1 was the most distinct genotype, and separation of its aged seeds in the PCA might reflect its better longevity on the time component. NILGAAS5 is the least storable genotype (CITATION). The aged versus AR physiological state comparisons for the four genotypes showed a total of 247 protein spots whose abundance changed significantly (P≤0.05) upon ageing (CITATION). A large number of the 247 spots were genotype specific (15 for Ler, 41 for NILGAAS1, 46 for NILGAAS2, and 64 for NILGAAS5) (CITATION). The three genotype comparisons led to the identification of 74 altered protein spots (CITATION), of which most were unique to the genotypes (47 for NILGAAS1, 12 for NILGAAS2, and 11 for NILGAAS5) (CITATION). The four spots in common between NILGAAS1 and NILGAAS2 (CITATION; Supplementary Table S2) when compared with Ler at the AR state might play a role in seed longevity, because both genotypes are more storable than Ler. 2D gel separation of seed proteins and the effect of ageing on seed protein abundance. (A) 2D gel of total soluble proteins from dry seeds stained with silver nitrate. The areas indicated on the gel (1 and 2) are enlarged in panels B and C. (B) Area 1 selected on the gel depicting the abundance of protein spot ID1345 that contains RPS12C and TPX1 proteins for the four genotypes (Ler and the near-isogenic lines NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 and NILGAAS5) at two physiological states [after-ripened (AR) and aged]. (C) Area 2 showing the change in abundance of protein spot ID0667, corresponding to VTE1 protein, for the four genotypes at two physiological states. Arrows indicate the position of the proteins. Genotype specific protein spots that were identified in (A) both physiological state and genotype comparisons and (B) in either physiological state or genotype comparison for near-isogenic lines NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 and NILGAAS5 (CITATION−E) The table displays protein spots based on the seven comparisons. Spot ID, the gene corresponding to the protein underlying the spot, molecular weight (MW in kD) and the theoretical (Th) and experimental (Exp) isoelectric point (pI), are presented respectively. Furthermore the relative abundance (fold change) of the spots in both types of comparisons (CITATION; physiological state and genotype) is indicated. Positive fold changes indicate higher abundances, and negative lower abundances. Spots in bold exhibit seed longevity up or seed longevity down protein profile. Fold changes in bold indicate statistically significant changes. NG1, NILGAAS1; NG2, NILGAAS2; NG5, NILGAAS5. Spots that were identified based on comparison to the reference protein map (http://www.seed-proteome.com) are labelled with R. n.i., not identified. Principal component analysis (PCA) for proteome profiles of Ler and the near-isogenic lines NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 and NILGAAS5. PCA was performed on the differentially accumulated protein spots in the seven comparisons (n=309). Classification of differentially expressed protein spots. (A) Intersection of proteins that were differentially expressed between the two physiological states, aged versus after-ripened (AR), within Landsberg erecta (Ler) and the near-isogenic lines NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 or NILGAAS5 (n=247). (B) Intersection of proteins that were differentially expressed between genotypes, each NIL versus Ler (n=74). (C, D, E) Intersection of proteins that were differential expressed in the genotypes NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 and NILGAAS5 respectively in the earlier comparisons (as mentioned in A and B). Genotype-specific protein spots include those differentially expressed in only one genotype derived from physiological comparisons (aged versus AR seeds; CITATION), and those identified in genotype comparisons (AR seeds of NILs versus Ler; CITATION). Overlapping spots of both comparison types are presented in CITATION−E and CITATION (8 for NILGAAS1, 2 for NILGAAS2 and 2 for NILGAAS5). Generally, these results indicate that seed dry storage affects the proteome in a genotype-specific manner. Furthermore, since the NILs used in this study possess different introgressed genomic regions at seed longevity QTLs (CITATIONet al., 2012), several distinct pathways might be involved in seed ageing which could be manifested as unique elements in their respective seed proteomes. These differences can either be causes or consequences of ageing and one cannot exclude the differences in the AR seed proteomes are caused by the nature of the introgression in the NILs and are therefore unrelated to seed longevity. To identify the factors underlying the protein differences both reference mapping and mass spectrometry (MS) analysis was performed. Approximately 70% of the differentially accumulated protein spots could be identified. Seed proteins are targets of various modifications (reviewed by CITATIONet al., 2011), including carbonylation and S-nitrosylation, especially in dry storage. As a consequence of these modifications, proteins can be represented by several isoforms with different molecular weight (MW) and/or isoelectric point (pI). Thus multiple spots of the same protein were identified. Investigation of the identified proteins in the four genotypes, Ler, NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 and NILGAAS5 revealed that possible diverse genetic pathways are involved in seed longevity which is reflected by proteins for which the isoforms are significantly altered in abundance in a genotype-specific manner. NILGAAS1 is the most storable line of the four tested genotypes (CITATION). NILGAAS1 has 41 unique protein spots that accumulate differently in aged compared to AR seeds (CITATION), and 47 when comparing AR seeds of NILGAAS1 to that of Ler (CITATION). Eight spots were at the intersect of both comparison types for NILGAAS1 (CITATION; CITATION), of which two, ID0715 and ID1104, contained CRUB. NILGAAS1 carries the truncated CRUB Cvi allele (CITATIONet al., 2005) resulting in a CRUB α-subunit with a lower MW compared to that from the Ler allele, which might account for the identification of CRUB in NILGAAS1. Dry seeds are well equipped to confront oxidative stress during storage due to their low water content and reduced metabolic activity. Auto-oxidation leading to accumulation of ROS occurs in dry seed where proteins are the major targets of oxidative damage because of their abundance and high affinity with radicals (CITATION). To control ROS-induced damage, seeds have detoxification mechanisms to scavenge or inactivate ROS. We found two proteins that are involved in the ascorbate antioxidant metabolism pathway in NILGAAS1. Protein spot ID0765 (CITATION) corresponds to MONODEHYDROASCOBATE REDUCTASE1 (MDAR1), a well known antioxidant enzyme that removes hydrogen peroxide at the ascorbate-glutathione cycle (CITATION). T-DNA insertion mutant analysis for seed longevity showed that mdar1.1 and mdar1.2 did not differ in seed longevity compared to Col (Supplementary Fig. S2). The lack of a phenotype might be due to redundancy since the MDAR gene family contains five members. Over-expression of AtMDAR1 in tobacco conferred enhanced tolerance to ozone, salt and osmotic stresses (CITATIONet al., 2007) suggesting that the ascorbate-glutathione cycle may play a role in seed ageing. GDP-D-MANNOSE 3′,5′-EPIMERASE (GME) is a key enzyme involved in ascorbate (vitamin C) synthesis in plants (CITATIONet al., 2001; CITATION). NILGAAS1 AR seeds had higher levels of GME (ID0712), which likely explains the higher resistance to ageing of NILGAAS1 compared to Ler seeds (CITATION). The GME isoform ID0734 was found more abundant in aged than AR seeds, which could indicate GME modification during ageing. Homozygous GME T-DNA insertion lines could not be isolated indicating that GME is an essential protein (Supplementary Table S1). RECEPTOR FOR ACTIVATED C KINASE1 (RACK1) isoform ID0951 was more abundant in AR seeds of NILGAAS1 than that of Ler (CITATION), which might also contribute to the better seed longevity of this NIL. RACK1 is a multi-function protein that plays a regulatory role in diverse signal transduction pathways and its transcripts are present during seed germination (CITATIONet al., 2006; CITATIONet al., 2009). In Arabidopsis, the translation initiation factor eIF6-2 interacts with RACK1, a negative regulator of ABA response and positive regulator of GA signalling (CITATIONet al., 2011; CITATIONet al., 2012). It was demonstrated that ABA inhibited RACK1 and eIF6 gene expression (CITATIONet al., 2011). Thus seed germination of a rack1A T-DNA insertion line was examined, however, did not significantly differ from that of wild-type Col (Supplementary Fig. S2). NILGAAS2, the second most storable genotype, had 46 unique protein spots that differentially accumulated when aged and AR seeds were compared (CITATION) and 12 when AR seeds of NILGAAS2 were compared to that of Ler (CITATION). Two spots were common in both comparisons (CITATION; CITATION). Although no specific pathway was identified, there are interesting proteins that might be involved in seed longevity in this NIL. Spot ID0458 (CITATION) corresponds to the T-complex Protein 1 α Subunit (TCP1). Several members of the TCP1 protein family were described to be up-accumulated during Arabidopsis seed dormancy release, suggesting that they could play a central role in seed germination (CITATIONet al., 2012). RESPONSIVE TO DEHYDRATION29B (RD29B) was identified in two protein spots, ID0206 and ID0196 (CITATION). The increased level of RD29B could be a marker for increased seed longevity. It was noted that de novo transcription is not required for germination since seeds are able to germinate until radical protrusion in the presence of α-amanitin (a transcription inhibitor targeting RNA POLYMERASE II); however subsequent seedling growth was prevented (CITATIONet al., 2004). Newly synthesized transcripts might also be necessary for germination of aged seed. The low abundance of RNA POLYMERASE II (AT2G15430, ID0762), 1.6-fold less abundant after ageing of NILGAAS2 seeds (CITATION), may contribute to reduced seed germination after storage. Homozygous T-DNA insertion lines for RNA POLYMERASE II could not be isolated (Supplementary Table S1). NILGAAS5 is the most sensitive genotype to ageing in this study (CITATION). The reduced seed longevity in NILGAAS5 is caused by the DOG1-Cvi allele, as was revealed by complementation cloning (CITATIONet al., 2012). DOG1 protein accumulates during seed maturation and remains stable throughout seed storage, however it is modified during after-ripening (CITATIONet al., 2012). We did not identify DOG1, likely because it is rather stable and not modified anymore at later stages during dry storage. NILGAAS5 had 64 unique protein spots that differentially accumulated when aged and AR seeds were compared (CITATION), and 11 when AR seeds of NILGAAS5 were compared to that of Ler (CITATION). Two spots, eID0228 and ID1146, encoding elongation factor EF1B and an unknown protein (CITATION; CITATION) were common to both comparisons. One of the proteins differentially accumulating in NILGAAS5 is RADIATION SENSITIVE23D (RAD23D), its protein spot (ID0632) is down regulated compared to Ler (CITATION). RAD23D was suggested to participate in DNA damage repair since the two carrot (Daucus carota) RAD23 isoforms rescue the UV-sensitive phenotype of the rad23 deletion mutant in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) (CITATION). During storage seeds are subjected to DNA damage and genome instability, which are considered to be a main cause of reduced germination after ageing. The maintenance of a functional DNA repair complex is essential for long-term survival (reviewed by CITATIONet al., 2008). However, since RAD23D is located in the introgression region of NILGAAS5, we cannot exclude the possibility that it affects seed longevity independently from DOG1. Another group of differentially accumulating proteins are the identified LATE EMBRYOGENESIS ABUNDANT FAMILY-4 PROTEINS; AT3G17520 in spot ID0976 and AT3G15670 in spot ID0258 and ID1144 (CITATION). The association of LEA AT3G15670 and seed germination after ageing was examined by T-DNA insertion mutant analysis (Supplementary Table S1); however, the lea mutant exhibited similar seed longevity compared to Col (Supplementary Fig. S2). NADP-DEPENDENT MALIC ENZYME1 (NADP-ME1) in spot ID0448 (CITATION) was lower abundant in aged compared with AR seeds of NILGAAS5, which makes it a possible marker for seed longevity. AT2S3, one of the five 2S albumin or napin isoforms (CITATIONet al., 1988; CITATIONet al., 1993), was more abundant in aged NILGAAS5 (the most sensitive genotype to ageing) (CITATION). The AT2S3 protein spot ID1505 might be a degradation product due to its altered MW and pI (CITATION). To examine if napins could affect seed longevity, a napin RNAi line was analysed for seed longevity (CITATIONet al., 2013) (Supplementary Table S3). The line, which is depleted of napins and has a reduced protein content mainly in the endosperm, was more sensitive to ageing than wild-type Col (CITATION). The effect of seed storage proteins (SSPs) on seed longevity and seed dormancy.(A) Seed longevity presented as germination (%) of different SSP knock-out lines was measured after 10 d of artificial ageing. The lines include the wild-type Col, as well as single (crua, aBC; crub, AbC and cruc, ABc), double (crub cruc, Abc; crua cruc, aBc and crua crub, abC) and triple (crua crub cruc, abc) knock-out lines of cruciferins, and an RNAi napin line that is depleted of napins. (B) Seed dormancy presented as days of seed dry storage required to reach 50% germination (DSDS50) of Col and different SSP knock-out lines. Carbohydrate metabolism is important for germinating seeds since it provides energy and intermediate metabolites for seed germination and seedling establishment. The metabolic pathways related to energy production are glycolysis, the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (OPP), fermentation, the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA), the glyoxylate cycle, and the electron transport chain (Supplementary Fig. S3). The abundance of several protein isoforms that encode for enzymes in these pathways were altered in the seed proteome upon storage (CITATION). Similar changes in the seed proteome upon ageing has also been found previously (CITATIONet al., 2008). In order to investigate the importance of these enzymes for seed longevity we have investigated T-DNA insertion lines of these genes for their seed longevity behaviour. The list of T-DNA insertion mutants that was tested is provided in Supplementary Table S1. For none of the mutants investigated seed longevity phenotypes have been revealed. It is possible that these enzymes are not important for seed longevity however we expect that the lack of phenotypes are caused by gene redundancy. For example, for the glycolysis enzyme UDP GLUCOSE URIDYLYLTRANSFERASE (UGP) we could only obtain one homozygous mutant (ugp1) and this mutant did not show a seed longevity phenotype (Supplementary Fig. S2), however there are two UGPs in Arabidopsis and these likely act redundantly. Differentially expressed protein spots upon ageing that are related to translation, energy metabolism, reactivation of cell activity, redox homeostasis, and ABA signalling The table displays protein spots based on the seven comparisons. Spot ID, the gene corresponding to the protein underlying the spot, molecular weight (MW in kD) and the theoretical (Th) and experimental (Exp) isoelectric point (pI), are presented respectively. Furthermore the relative abundance (fold change) of the spots in both types of comparisons (CITATION; physiological state and genotype) is indicated. Positive fold changes indicate higher abundances, and negative lower abundances. Fold changes in bold indicate the statistically significant changes. NG1, NILGAAS1; NG2, NILGAAS2; NG5, NILGAAS5. Spots that were identified based on comparison to the reference protein map (http://www.seed-proteome.com) are labelled with R. n.i., not available. Protein translation is essential for seed germination, since the presence of the translation inhibitor cycloheximide prevented radicle protrusion (CITATIONet al., 2004). Furthermore, aged seeds were strongly affected in their translation capacity (CITATIONet al., 2008). This research also demonstrated that many proteins involved in protein metabolism were highly carbonylated in deteriorated seeds. Consistent with previous studies, we observed that the levels of elongation factor EF1B family proteins were lower in aged compared to AR seeds (CITATION). Moreover, spot ID1345, corresponding to the ribosomal protein 40S subunit RPS12C, was reduced in abundance after storage of Ler, NILGAAS1 and NILGAAS2 seeds (CITATION; CITATION). Changes in the abundance of METHIONINE ADENOSYLTRANSFERASE (MAT) were observed in both NILGAAS1 (MAT3, ID0693; CITATION) and NILGAAS2 (MAT2, ID0694; CITATION) after ageing. MAT participates in S-adenosylmethionine (Ado-Met) biosynthesis and is important for reactivating cellular activity in germinating seeds (CITATIONet al., 1998; CITATIONet al., 2002). This indicates genotype-specific differences in the dependency on pathways related to Ado-Met metabolism in seed longevity. Seed storage and germination are coupled to extensive changes in the redox state of seed proteins and even in the dry state seed proteins are subjected to various types of PTMs which include redox modifications (CITATIONet al., 2011; CITATIONet al., 2012). Thioredoxin has a vital role in redox processes, in which it transforms essential proteins from the oxidized to the reduced form and in the process retrieves the molecular function of those proteins. THIOREDOXIN-DEPENDENT PEROXIDASE1 (TPX1) (ID1345) abundance declined in aged compared to AR seeds of Ler, NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 (CITATION; CITATION). TPX1 is a thioredoxin-dependent peroxidases type II B (Prx IIB), one of the six isoforms in this family, which has a wide range of redox buffering activities (CITATION). Thus, TPX1 might be very important for retaining the redox balance during ageing and germination. To investigate the role of TPX1, seed longevity for the tpx1 mutant was analysed; however, it was similar to the wild-type Col accession (Supplementary Fig. S2). The lack of a visible phenotype for tpx1 could be due to the nature of the T-DNA insertion (3ʹ-UTR region of the gene) (Supplementary Table S1) or due to redundancy of enzymatic antioxidant systems in seeds, so that missing one might not have obvious effects. Vitamin E is another antioxidant important for seed longevity since the vitamin E deficient1 (vte1) mutant seeds were more sensitive to artificial ageing than those of the wild type (CITATIONet al., 2004). In this study, VTE1 (ID0667) abundance was lower in aged seeds of NILGAAS2 and NILGAAS5 (CITATION; CITATION) than AR seeds, which is in agreement with previous studies suggesting a role of VTE1 in seed longevity. Many of the identified protein spots were SSP 12S globulin fragments, a predominant type of SSP referred to as cruciferin (CITATIONet al., 1988). A set of single, double and triple knock-out lines for CRUA, CRUB and CRUC (CITATIONet al., 2013) (Supplementary Table S3) was analysed to study the role of cruciferins in seed longevity under artificial ageing. Cruciferin single knock-out mutants lacking one of the cruciferin isoforms did not differ in seed longevity compared to wild-type Col (CITATION). The crua cruc double mutant lacking both CRUA and CRUC exhibited reduced seed longevity, whereas seed longevity for the crua crub and crub cruc double mutants was unaffected. CRUB is poorly transcribed and CRUB is the least abundant cruciferin isoform (CITATIONet al., 2013), thus the crua cruc double mutant has very low levels of cruciferin. This explains why double mutants that have eliminated CRUB, but retained the more abundant CRUA or CRUC isoforms, did not show reduced seed longevity. The effect of cruciferin content on seed longevity was even more apparent in the crua crub cruc triple mutant which was very sensitive to artificial ageing (CITATION). The role of cruciferins on seed longevity cannot be explained by reduced protein levels since the crua cruc double mutant has wild type protein levels in both the endosperm and the embryo (CITATIONet al., 2013). This phenomenon is referred to as seed proteome rebalancing and involves a general increase in the production of other seed proteins to compensate for the loss of a major SSP (CITATION). Defects in seed development that lead to reduced seed longevity often result in reduced seed dormancy levels as well, examples are the abi3-5, dog1-1 and tt mutants (CITATIONet al., 1993; CITATIONet al., 2000; CITATIONet al., 2004a ; CITATIONet al., 2009). However, despite the reduction in SSPs and reduced seed longevity, seed dormancy as measured by days of seed dry storage required to reach 50% germination was unaffected in the cru mutants (CITATION). Thus, the loss of germination in the mutant is not caused by the lack of protein reserves. It is possible that the localization and distribution of the proteins is important since the crua crub cruc triple mutant contains very small protein storage vesicles with very little protein within (CITATIONet al., 2013). The influences of SSPs can also be due to their modification because SSPs are subject to a wide range of PTMs (CITATIONet al., 2005; CITATIONet al., 2007), suggesting that the effects of PTMs on SSPs play a role in seed longevity. Although several T-DNA mutants were tested for seed longevity, SSP mutants showed the most severe phenotype, especially the cruciferin triple mutant crua crub cruc and the napin RNAi line. Therefore, we further investigated the seed longevity mechanism provided by SSPs using these two mutants. SSPs were reported to be massively oxidized, especially in the form of carbonylation, during seed germination in Arabidopsis (CITATIONet al., 2005) and in pea (Pisum sativum) (CITATIONet al., 2011). Different roles for SSPs in seed germination have been proposed due to its affinity to carbonylation: (i) Role in reserve mobilization. Carbonylated SSPs are easily destabilized from larger complexes, since they are more susceptible to proteolysis to remobilize resources for seed germination and seedling establishment. (ii) It was also suggested that the abundance of SSPs makes them an efficient scavenging system for ROS that are actively generated during seed germination (reviewed by CITATIONet al., 2013). During long-term storage, SSPs are often carbonylated, which is an irreversible form of oxidation leading to deterioration, in dry aged seeds of Arabidopsis (CITATIONet al., 2007; CITATION) and beech (Fagus sylvatica) (CITATION). The high abundance of SSPs might protect other proteins that are important for germination from oxidation, suggesting a role for SSPs in ROS-buffering during seed dry storage. We examined this hypothesis by investigation of the carbonylation pattern of AR and aged SSP mutant seeds in comparison with that of wild-type seeds. 1D-PAGE analysis of total protein extracts confirmed the reduction of cruciferin and napin proteins in dry seeds of the crua crub cruc and RNAi-napin mutant, respectively (CITATION). Carbonylation of seed proteins was significant in both AR and aged seeds, with cruciferin being a major target in the wild-type and RNAi-napin lines (CITATION). The cruciferin mutant exhibited a different protein carbonylation pattern in which carbonylation levels increased for the remaining proteins compared to the wild-type profile. In addition, there is a slight reduction in protein oxidation profiles comparing aged to AR seeds of all three genotypes, but also this effect was the strongest in the crua crub cruc mutant. Our result provides the first proof that SSPs, mainly cruciferins, are buffers for oxidative stress especially in dry seeds during storage. The carbonylated proteins in SSP mutants are interesting, since they will reveal new insights on the elements important for seed longevity. Protein carbonylation of seed proteins in after-ripened (AR) artificially aged seeds (Aged). (A) 1D gel electrophoresis stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue of total seed protein extracts from Col, the triple cruciferin mutant abc (crua crub cruc) and the napin mutant (RNAi-napin). (B) Carbonylated proteins as detected by immunodetection of protein-bound DNP after derivatization with hydrazine.
!~MM~! The four A. thaliana genotypes, namely Ler, NILGAAS1(-Cape Verde Islands (Cvi)), NILGAAS2(-Antwerp (An-1)) and NILGAAS5 (-Shakdara (Sha)), were originally developed as NILDOG2, NILDOG22 and NILDOG1, respectively (CITATIONet al., 2010; CITATIONet al., 2012). Those genotypes were grown in a randomized complete block design with replicates in soil as described in CITATIONet al. (2010). Seeds of four plants per replicate were bulked. Proteome analyses were conducted for the four genotypes at two physiological stages, fully AR and 4-year-old (aged) seeds. Fully AR seeds are competent to germinate 100% while aged seeds have germination ability reduced; in this study germination phenotype of those seeds were assessed (CITATION). Seed germination after seed dry storage. The germination (%) of Ler and the near-isogenic lines NILGAAS1, NILGAAS2 and NILGAAS5 were analysed for after-ripened seeds (open bars) and naturally-aged seeds after four years of storage (filled bars). Averages of four biological replicates with standard errors are presented. The asterisks indicate significant differences between aged NILs and Ler (P<0.05). Fully AR seeds were stored in 1.5ml microcentrifuge tubes at −80ºC. Aged seeds came from the same harvest, but were stored in cellophane bags (HERA, papierverarbeitung, Germany) under ambient conditions (∼50% relative humidity and 21°C) for four years. Four biological replicates were used in the proteomic analyses. The single, double and triple T-DNA insertion lines of cruciferin SSPs and the RNAi line of napin SSP family gene were obtained from CITATIONet al. (2013). T-DNA insertion lines (Supplementary Table S1) for candidate genes were screened for homozygous insertions and grown with wild-type Columbia (Col) under greenhouse conditions using rock wool (Grodan, the Netherlands) supplemented with a Hyponex solution 1g l-1 (www.hyponex.co.jp), in a randomized complete block design with four replicates per genotype. Germination assays were performed according to CITATIONet al. (2010) over a period of 7 d. Briefly, samples of 50−200 seeds each were sown on two layers of blue germination paper (5.6ʹʹ×8ʹʹ Blue Blotter Paper; Anchor Paper Company, http://www.seedpaper.com) equilibrated with 43ml of demineralized water in a plastic tray (15×21cm) (CITATIONet al., 2010). Trays were piled and wrapped in a transparent plastic bag and incubated at 22°C under continuous light (30W m-2). Pictures of the germination trays were taken twice daily over 7 d. Automatic scoring of germination and statistical analysis were conducted using the Germinator package (CITATIONet al., 2010). Dormancy was calculated as days of seed dry storage required to reach 50% germination as described in CITATIONet al. (2014). Artificial ageing was used to evaluate seed longevity of the T-DNA insertion lines. Approximately 200 seeds were placed into an opened 1.5ml eppendorf tube and stored above a saturated NaCl solution in a closed tank that has a ventilator to ensure equal humidity inside the tank monitored by Lascar data logger (80−85% relative humidity and temperature of 40°C) for 0−10 d. After treatment, germination assays were performed as described above. Thirty milligrams of dry seeds of each sample (four biological replicates) were ground with a mortar and pestle in liquid nitrogen for ∼1min. Extraction buffer and protease inhibitor (CITATIONet al. 2008), were added to the seed powder, followed by further grinding for 2min. The solution was placed in 1.5ml microcentrifuge tube and incubated with DNase I 53 units/ml, RNase A 4.9 Kunitz units/ml, and DTT 14mM at 4°C for 1h on rotator (Labinco) at 10rpm. Soluble material extract was collected as supernatant after centrifugation at 14 000rpm at 4°C for 10min. Protein separation was performed with 20 µl of protein extract, equivalent to ∼150 µg of protein. 2D gel electrophoresis was conducted as by CITATIONet al. (2008, CITATION), adapted for gel strips forming an immobilized nonlinear pH gradient from 3 to 11 (Immobilized DryStrip pH 3–11 NL, 24cm; GE Healthcare). 2D gels were stained with silver nitrate according to CITATIONet al. (2008). Stained gels were placed within two layers of cellophane membrane stretched on cassette frames for drying. Images of dry gels were obtained with an Epson Perfection V700 scanner. Quantitative image analysis was conducted using Progenesis Samespot software (v3.2, NonLinear Dynamics) to quantify proteins spots and to detect changes in protein accumulation. The PCA was performed based on the abundance of the differentially-accumulated protein spots. Pair-wise statistics were used to detect protein spots that significantly changed in abundance. Two categories were defined; physiological state and genotype and four physiological state comparisons were made between the protein profiles of the two physiological states (aged versus AR) within each genotype. The AR seed proteome profiles of the NILs were also compared to that the Ler genetic background. Protein spots were considered to have been significantly different in abundance if they were higher than or equal to 1.5-fold up or down accumulated and when the P-value was equal or smaller than 0.05 according to one-way ANOVA test (Progenesis Samespot software) between the means of the four replicates. Due to the high reproducibility of 2D protein patterns, many proteins could be identified based on their position on gel and comparison to reference maps (http://www.seed-proteome.com; CITATIONet al., 2012). Other proteins spots were excised from the gels, digested with trypsin and identified by LC-MS/MS as described by CITATIONet al. (2012). Peptide sequences were submitted to the XTandem Pipeline (http://pappso.inra.fr/bioinfo/xtandempipeline/) databases to retrieve the full protein sequence and the gene annotation. Genomic DNA was isolated from leaves using a modification of the method of CITATIONet al. (1993). Briefly, 0.5cm diameter leaf sample was ground in 1ml of extraction buffer containing 2M NaCl, 200mM Tris-HCl (pH 8), 70mM EDTA and 20mM Na2S2O5. The grinding was conducted with a stainless steel ball at 30 Hz for 1min in a 96-well plate shaker (Mo Bio Laboratory). Samples were then incubated at 65°C for 1h. Supernatants were collected after centrifugation at 13 000rpm for 10min in 1.5ml eppendorf tubes. DNA was precipitated by adding isopropanol and 10M NH4Ac with ratio of 1:0.5:1 to the supernatant. This mixture was incubated at room temperature for 15min and then centrifuged for 20min at 13 000rpm. The DNA pellet was retrieved and rinsed with 1ml of 70% ethanol followed by centrifugation for 5min at 13000rpm to recover the pellet. After drying, the DNA pellet was dissolved in 50 µl distilled water. Homozygous T-DNA insertion lines were screened with gene-specific primers and T-DNA border-specific primers (Supplementary Table S1). T-DNA plants that amplified only the insertion product were considered to be homozygous mutants. Polymerase chain reactions (PCR) were performed in a 12.5 µl volume containing ∼30ng DNA, 25 µM of each dNTP, 25ng of forward and reverse primers, 0.05U of DNA polymerase (Firepol, Solis BioDyne), and 312.5 µM of MgCl2. The reaction protocol was as follows: denaturation at 95°C for 5min followed by 30 s at 95°C, 30 s annealing at 52 to 57°C (dependent upon the primer pair) and a 45 s to 2min extension (dependent upon the length of the product) at 72°C; this cycle was repeated for 35 times and ended with a final incubation for 10min at 72°C. The amplified products were separated by agarose gel electrophoresis at concentrations from 1.5 % and higher (w/v) depending on size of differences. Carbonylated protein profiles were determined by 1D PAGE of total protein extract followed by derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine and immunological detection of the DNP adducts with monoclonal anti-DNP antibody (OxyBlot Oxidized Protein Detection Kit; Chemicon) as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2005).
