!~ABS~! Elevated carbon dioxide (CO2) in leaves closes stomatal apertures. Research has shown key functions of the β-carbonic anhydrases (βCA1 and βCA4) in rapid CO2-induced stomatal movements by catalytic transmission of the CO2 signal in guard cells. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear, because initial studies indicate that these Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) βCAs are targeted to distinct intracellular compartments upon expression in tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) cells. Which cellular location of these enzymes plays a key role in native guard cells in CO2-regulated stomatal movements remains unknown. Here, we express fluorescently tagged CAs in guard cells of ca1ca4 double-mutant plants and show that the specific locations of βCA4 at the plasma membrane and βCA1 in native guard cell chloroplasts each can mediate rapid CO2 control of stomatal movements. Localization and complementation analyses using a mammalian αCAII-yellow fluorescent protein in guard cells further show that cytoplasmic localization is also sufficient to restore CO2 regulation of stomatal conductance. Mathematical modeling of cellular CO2 catalysis suggests that the dynamics of the intracellular HCO3− concentration change in guard cells can be driven by plasma membrane and cytoplasmic localizations of CAs but not as clearly by chloroplast targeting. Moreover, modeling supports the notion that the intracellular HCO3− concentration dynamics in guard cells are a key mechanism in mediating CO2-regulated stomatal movements but that an additional chloroplast role of CAs exists that has yet to be identified.
!~RES~! To characterize the cellular locations of βCA1 and βCA4 and gain insight into the sites of CO2 responsiveness in guard cells, we generated transgenic ca1ca4 plants expressing YFP fused to the C terminus of βCA1 or βCA4. These constructs were targeted to mature guard cells using the guard cell promoter pGC1 (CITATION). Analyses of nonguard cells in leaves, including epidermal pavement cells and mesophyll cells, showed no clear YFP fluorescence for the YFP fusion lines used for further analyses. Confocal microscopy analyses showed that YFP-tagged CA1 was targeted to the chloroplasts of guard cells (Fig. 1A), but no clear signal was detected in other compartments and locations in guard cells in leaves from more than 200 plants. [[FIGURE]] Previous research showed that βCA1 targeted mainly to chloroplasts upon expression in tobacco leaves (CITATION); however, a fraction of βCA1 expressed in tobacco leaves was also found at the plasma membrane (CITATION). To further investigate this difference, we expressed different portions of βCA1 fused to YFPs in tobacco leaves. Biochemical studies of pea (Pisum sativum) CA had previously identified cleavage of the chloroplast targeting sequence at two different sites, resulting in two different protein lengths (CITATION). The respective predicted cleavage sites are located before and after a highly charged region of the protein corresponding to amino acid 107 in βCA1 (CITATION). We analyzed the protein sequences of βCA1 expressed in tobacco leaves by western blot and identified a prominent protein band with an apparent Mr of 25 kD (Fig. 2A). Additional analysis by tandem mass spectroscopy identified peptides starting from approximately amino acid 108. This indicates cleavage of βCA1 approximately upstream of amino acid 108 in a highly charged region consisting of seven acidic and five basic residues, which was similarly described for pea CA (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] Microscopic analysis of YFP-tagged βCA1 showed that the N terminus spanning the first 65 amino acids of βCA1 containing the chloroplast peptide signal was targeted to chloroplasts, whereas expression of a truncated βCA1 without the first 65 amino acids (CA166–330) was localized in the vicinity of the plasma membrane or cytoplasm (Fig. 3). These data suggest that, in tobacco plants, βCA1 could be cleaved, which results in the partial cytoplasm/plasma membrane localization of βCA1 in this system (CITATION). Expression in tobacco may thus lead to mistargeting of some of the cleaved βCA1 protein. [[FIGURE]] We investigated whether the YFP-tagged βCA1 protein expressed in native guard cell chloroplasts in ca1ca4 plants can complement the reduced CO2 response phenotype of ca1ca4 double-mutant plants. Gas exchange analyses in three independent transgenic lines showed complementation of the ca1ca4 double mutant (Fig. 1, B–E). In contrast to CA1-YFP, YFP-tagged βCA4 was detected at the plasma membrane of ca1ca4 guard cells (Fig. 4A), consistent with transient expression in tobacco cells (CITATION; CITATION). The CO2 responses of βCA4-YFP-expressing transgenic lines were also complemented by the guard cell plasma membrane-localized βCA4-YFP in three independent lines (Fig. 4, B–E). Interestingly, these findings suggest that the βCA1-YFP and βCA4-YFP fusion constructs are functional, although these βCAs have distinct cellular sites of activity. These results show that the localization of βCA4 at the plasma membrane is sufficient to mediate CO2-induced stomatal closing. [[FIGURE]] The above findings show that βCA1 and βCA4 localize to different cellular compartments in guard cells but that their expression regulates CO2-induced stomatal movements. We therefore investigated whether mistargeting of βCA4 to chloroplasts would result in functional CO2-regulated stomatal movements in ca1ca4 guard cells. For mistargeting βCA4 to chloroplasts, the chloroplast transit peptide comprising the 55 N-terminal residues of the CHLOROPLAST-LOCALIZED IRON-SULFUR CLUSTER ASSEMBLY-LIKE PROTEIN (CpIscA) protein (CITATION) was fused to βCA4-GFP, and the construct was driven by the guard cell promoter pGC1 (CITATION; Supplemental Fig. S1A). Confocal imaging analyses confirmed that βCA4-GFP was expressed in guard cell chloroplasts (Supplemental Fig. S1B). Three randomly selected independent transgenic ΔCplscA-CA4-GFP-expressing lines mistargeting βCA4 to chloroplasts in the ca1ca4 background were chosen for analyses of CO2 regulation of stomatal conductance. Notably, none of the investigated lines exhibited complete wild-type CO2 responses (Supplemental Fig. S1, C–H). An apparent putative average weak recovery of the CO2 response was observed in the ΔCplscA-CA4-GFP-12 line. However, this CO2 response was not significant for the first 30 min after CO2 was shifted to 100 μL L−1 (Supplemental Fig. S1G; P = 0.06 compared with the wild type and P = 0.88 compared with ca1ca4 plants). Previous data showed that a structurally unrelated human αCAII without YFP fusion also restored the stomatal response of ca1ca4 to [CO2] shifts (CITATION). However, the cellular targeting of this unrelated αCAII was not resolved. We investigated the cellular targeting and in parallel, stomatal CO2 responses in plants expressing YFP-tagged human αCAII. First, we transiently expressed the human CAII-YFP fusion construct in tobacco epidermal cell protoplasts. YFP signals were detected in both cytoplasm and the nuclear region and did not overlap with chlorophyll fluorescence of chloroplasts (Fig. 5, Ad–Af). Second, the YFP-tagged human αCAII was expressed in ca1ca4 guard cells using the pGC1 promoter. The YFP-tagged human αCAII was detected in the cytoplasm and nucleus of guard cells (Fig. 5, Ah–Aj), similar to its expression in tobacco epidermal cells. [[FIGURE]] Stomatal conductance changes in response to CO2 changes were determined in randomly selected human αCAII-YFP-expressing ca1ca4 transgenic lines. Notably, human αCAII-YFP expression also rescued the stomatal responses to CO2 changes of ca1ca4 mutant plants (Fig. 5, B–E). These data suggest that the activities of human αCAII-YFP fusion proteins in the cytoplasm and nucleus are sufficient for regulation of stomatal CO2 responses. Remarkably, together, all of these findings show that the investigated CAs are targeted to distinct cellular sites but retain, each one separately, the ability to complement the ca1ca4 double mutant. To explore the above findings and the potential signaling components in CO2 regulation of the stomatal closing pathway, we constructed a simplified model for the catalytic activity of CAs targeted to different compartments. We developed a compartmental mathematical model using parameters from a recent study on CO2 influx into Xenopus laevis oocytes (CITATION), which was modified to accommodate the much smaller cell size of guard cells. This model describes the interconversion of CO2, HCO3−, and protons. Initially, we modeled the guard cell as a single compartment with spatially uniform concentration of reactants. This simplification was chosen given the small size of guard cells (approximately 10 μm) together with the large diffusion constants of the reactants CO2 and HCO3−. We incorporated CA-like activity by multiplying the rate constants k1 and k−1 (equations in “Materials and Methods”) by an acceleration factor A as described in the work by CITATION. The starting condition for the simulation was at a CO2 concentration (Ci) of 200 μL L−1 for both the leaf and the intracellular fluid (ICF), consistent with directly measured Ci values in leaves during the light period (CITATION). A change of Ci to 800 μL L−1, similar to leaves exposed to darkness (CITATION), results in an influx of CO2 into the cell, such that the internal CO2 concentration rapidly approaches the external value. The simulated intracellular HCO3− concentration was plotted as a function of time in the presence and absence of CAs (CITATION). In the presence of CAs, an acceleration factor of A = 5 was assumed for CO2 dissociation in the cell (CITATION; Fig. 6A, black curve; A = 5, with CA activity). In the absence of CA activity (A = 1), the predicted increase in the intracellular bicarbonate concentration occurred on a substantially slowed timescale (Fig. 6A, red curve; A = 1, without CA). Clearly, the presence of CAs (A > 1) changes the time course of the predicted bicarbonate concentration increase (Fig. 6A). Because elevated intracellular bicarbonate elevation causes stomatal closure and activates S-type anion channels in guard cells (CITATION; CITATION), the predicted time courses of [bicarbonate] change correlate with the slowed stomatal response to [CO2] shifts in ca1ca4 mutant plants. Note also that the steady-state value of the system is independent of the acceleration factor and thus, eventually, stomata may be predicted to be close to a similar level in ca1ca4 mutant plants, albeit at a slower rate. This result can be explained by noting that, in a theoretical system that behaves as a closed system to all solutes other than CO2, the CO2/HCO3− buffering power in the steady state does not depend on the presence of CA. Thus, the results of our simulations could potentially explain the phenotype of stomatal movements observed in ca1ca4 guard cells (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] To determine the effects of CA localization for driving intracellular bicarbonate concentration changes, we have also simulated a small internal compartment representing an organelle, such as the chloroplast, within a larger compartment that corresponds to the guard cell. The acceleration factor in the guard cell’s cytosol of ca1ca4 mutant plants was taken to be one, whereas within the organelle, Aorg was varied. Our simulations revealed that, for a chloroplast with an inner envelope membrane that does not permit substantial HCO3− release from the organelle back into the cytoplasm, the time course of cytosolic HCO3− concentration is largely unaffected (not accelerated) by the presence of organellar CA (Fig. 6A, cyan). The slight reduction in cytosolic HCO3− compared with A = 1 (Fig. 6A) can be understood by realizing that, because of the organellar CA, the chloroplast acts as a small sink for cytosolic CO2, resulting in a marginally smaller cytosolic CO2 and thus, a slightly slower production of cytosolic HCO3−. Even assuming a chloroplast inner envelope membrane that is permeable to all components, including HCO3− flux from the chloroplast into the cytoplasm and choosing Aorg = 5 resulted in cytosolic HCO3− dynamics that are considerably slower than those in our single-compartment model (compare the black and green curves in Fig. 6A). However, increasing the value of the organellar acceleration factor Aorg is equivalent to choosing a CA with a larger activity in the organelle and will speed up this dynamics. We have verified this through explicit simulations that the predicted time course of HCO3− can be made similar to the one obtained using a single compartment with A = 5, if the organellar CA has a larger activity (blue curve in Fig. 6A; Aorg = 20). These predictions may explain our experimental findings that the mistargeting of βCA4 to chloroplasts cannot complement the insensitive stomatal responses to CO2 changes of the ca1ca4 mutant (Supplemental Fig. S1), whereas at the plasma membrane, the βCA4 activity is sufficient. Furthermore, because it seems unlikely that the chloroplast membrane permits large rates of HCO3− or H2CO3 efflux from the chloroplast back to the cytoplasm, it also suggests that the role of organellar βCA1 might be more complex than simulated in our simple compartmental model (Fig. 6A; Aorg = 5 or 20). This view is also supported by our additional simplified simulation assuming no efflux of HCO3− from chloroplasts to the cytoplasm (Fig. 6A, cyan) and that chloroplasts have an important, yet to be identified contribution to CO2 regulation of stomatal movements (see “Discussion”). To investigate further the effect of CA localization for driving intracellular HCO3− concentration changes, we used a distinct full spatial reaction-diffusion mathematical model, as reported by CITATION, appropriately modified to represent a single cell of guard cell dimension surrounded by the bulk extracellular cell wall space (for details, see “Materials and Methods”). Unlike the simplified compartmental model described above, this model accounts for spatial variability and allows for the implementation of CA-like activity at the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane. As before, we allowed the system to reach equilibrium at a low Ci and then increased the CO2 concentration as described in “Materials and Methods.” Figure 6B illustrates the predicted intracellular HCO3− concentration as a function of time for a simulation in which CA activity (Acyt = 5) is implemented everywhere inside the cell (Fig. 6B, black curve; cytoplasm) or only at the plasma membrane (Fig. 6B, cyan curve; AIM = 5). As a control, we have also plotted the time course of the HCO3− concentration for a simulation in which no CA-like activity is implemented (A = 1; red curve in Fig. 6B). Note that each curve corresponds to the concentration at a depth of approximately 5 µm into the cell. We have verified that this spatial model predicts virtually identical dynamics of HCO3− concentration changes at any depth into the cell. This can be explained because of the small size of guard cells and the large diffusion rates of the reactants inside the cell (see above). Consistent with the single-compartment model of a guard cell (Fig. 6A), in the absence of CA-like activity, intracellular HCO3− concentration rises very slowly, whereas in the presence of CA-like activity, the production of HCO3− occurs at a faster rate and therefore, results in faster dynamics of HCO3− concentration changes. When CA-like activity is implemented everywhere in the cytosol (Acyt = 5; black curve in Fig. 6B), the rise in HCO3− concentration is faster than when CA-like activity is implemented only at the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane (Fig. 6B, cyan curve; AIM = 5). This difference in rates of HCO3− concentration changes predicted in this simplified model occurs, because when CA-like activity is implemented everywhere in the cell, there is a rapid consumption of incoming CO2 at every location within the cell, whereas when CA-like activity is implemented only at the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane, this conversion occurs only near the plasma membrane. Nevertheless, the HCO3− concentration in the presence of membrane-bound CAs increases faster than in the absence of any CA-like activity. Moreover, this increase could be even faster by assuming an even larger CA activity at the membrane. One prediction of the above model, assuming that HCO3− is the intracellular signal that transmits the CO2 response (CITATION; CITATION), is that longer exposures to elevated CO2 should enable stomata of ca1ca4 mutant plants to close to similar levels as wild-type plants but at a slowed rate. Because the rate of stomatal closing was found previously to be slowed in ca1ca4 mutant plants (CITATION), we conducted experiments in which prolonged elevated CO2 concentrations were applied. The stomatal conductance of ca1ca4 mutant plants was reduced to a similar level compared with wild-type plants when CO2 was increased from 400 to 800 μL L−1 for more than 90 min under the imposed conditions (Fig. 7). These findings also point to secondary compensatory feedback mechanisms that may strengthen the response to CO2 shifts in ca1ca4 plants due to the enhanced stomatal conductance (CITATION; CITATION). These experiments suggest that, if the starting CO2 concentration is 400 μL L−1 and the CO2 concentration is rapidly increased to 800 μL L−1 for prolonged exposures, stomata eventually can close to similar or even lower levels than wild-type plants. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants used in this study were Columbia-0 ecotype and grown in a Conviron Growth Chamber at 21°C with 60% to 80% humidity and a 16-h-light/8-h-dark photoperiod regime at approximately 75 µmol m−2 s−1. The isolation of the βCA ca1ca4 double mutant was as described in the work by CITATION. For YFP-tagged expression of βCA1, βCA4, and human CAII, complementary DNAs in guard cells of ca1ca4, βCA1, βCA4, and human CAII were amplified and recombined into the binary vector pXC27G-YFP, which was derived from pXCSG-YFP (CITATION). The 35S promoter was replaced by the mature guard cell-preferential promoter pGC1 (CITATION). βCA1 was amplified by primers CA1F (5′-ggggacaagtttgtacaaaaaagcaggctatagtagcttccataagagtc-3′) and CA1R (5′-ggggaccactttgtacaagaaagctgggtcaagtccccaaagctcaaa-3′). βCA4 was amplified by primers CA4F (5′-ggggacaagtttgtacaaaaaagcaggctaatggctcctgcattcgg-3′) and CA4R (5′-ggggaccactttgtacaagaaagctgggtaggcaaaagcaggagtg-3′). Human CAII was amplified by primers CAIIF (5′-ggggacaagtttgtacaaaaaagcaggctcgaccatgtcccatcact-3′) and CAIIR (5′-ggggaccactttgtacaagaaagctgggttttgcctgttcttcagtg-3′) from the complementary DNA clone SC107902 (OriGENE; CITATION). For targeting CA4 to guard cell chloroplasts in ca1ca4 mutant plants, the construct ΔCpIscA-CA4-GFP in a modified pGreen vector driven by the mature guard cell-preferential promoter pGC1 (CITATION) was created. CA4 was amplified by primers CA4F2 (5′-aactgcagaatggctcctgcattcgg-3′; with PstI adapter) and CA4R2 (5′-aaggatccaggcaaaagcaggagtg-3′; with BamHI adapter) and fused to GFP in the vector pGreen-pGC1-GFP at the sites of PstI and BamHI to create the construct pGreen-pGC1-CA4-GFP. ΔCpIscA, the 55 N-terminal amino acids of the chloroplast-localized CpIscA protein (CITATION), was amplified by ΔCpIscAF (5′-aaccatggcgcatttgaatcagcaga-3′; with NcoI adapter) and ΔCpIscAR (5′-aactgcaggaagcggatcgaacagaaa-3′; with PstI adapter) and fused to CA4-GFP at the sites of NcoI and PstI in the construct. Constructs generated were transformed into ca1ca4 plants by the floral dipping method (CITATION). To analyze the localization of different portions of βCA1 in the tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) epidermis, the full length of βCA1 was amplified by the primers CA1-F (5′-ggggacaagtttgtacaaaaaagcaggctatgtcgaccgctcctctctc-3′) and CA1-R (5′-ggggaccactttgtacaagaaagctgggtacagcttccaatgtagtatggtagcc-3′) and fused to GFP in the vector barII_pUBQ10_GFPc-GWB (provided by Jorg Kudla) as CA1-GFP. CA1ΔCP-GFP is the βCA1 protein with the first 65 amino acids deleted. It is amplified by CA1 (NDel)-F (5′-ggggacaagtttgtacaaaaaagcaggctcctgctcctatcattgcccc-3′) and CA1-R and fused to GFP; CA1CP-GFP represents the first 65 amino acids of βCA1 amplified by CA1-F and CA1-R(Del) (5′-ggggaccactttgtacaagaaagctgggtaagcggcaaaaactggctcgtt-3′) fused to GFP. To transiently express human CAII-YFP in the tobacco epidermis, the human CAII amplified by primers CAIIF2 and CAIIR2 was fused to YFP in the vector construct pXCSG-YFP (CITATION). The pH35YG vector containing 35S::YFP was used as a positive control for cytoplasmic and nuclear localizations (CITATION). FLAGELLIN-SENSING2 is used as a control of membrane protein. Protoplasts were isolated from infiltrated leaves as described previously (CITATION). For the localization of YFP-tagged CA1 and CA4 in ca1ca4 guard cells, the leaf epidermal layers were directly imaged for YFP fluorescence using confocal microscopy. For YFP-tagged human CAII in ca1ca4 guard cells, the leaf epidermal layers were first stained with FM4-64 for 10 min. Fluorescence imaging was acquired by spinning-disc confocal microscopy with an electron-multiplying CCD camera (CascadeII: 512; Photometrics) using Metamorph software (Universal Imaging). Transient transformation of 4-week-old tobacco plants and purification of βCA1-StrepII were performed as described (CITATION). For SDS-PAGE, one volume of washed Macroprep beads were resuspended in one volume of 2× SDS-gel loading buffer and heated to 90°C for 6 min. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed by Strep Tactin-alkaline phosphatase conjugate (IBA) as described (CITATION). Tryptic digestion of StrepII-purified proteins was performed in gel. Proteins were reduced with 10 mm dithiothreitol at 56°C for 1 h and alkylated with 55 mm iodoacetamide at room temperature for 45 min. Proteins were digested using 0.4 µg of Trypsin Singles (Sigma Aldrich) at room temperature overnight. Digests were desalted for electrospray mass spectrometry with a C18 Reverse-Phase ZipTip Resin (Millipore). A QSTAR Elite Quadrupole-TOF Mass Spectrometer equipped with a Nano-Spray Source and nanoLC System (AB Sciex) was used for analysis. Resulting wiff files were converted into mzXML format and analyzed using PEAKS Studio 7.0. Database search was performed against The Arabidopsis Information Resource Database (TAIR10_pep_20101214) with a 0.1% false discovery rate cutoff. Carbamidomethylation was set as a fixed modification, and phosphorylation and Met oxidation were selected as variable modifications. Additional variable modifications were identified by PEAKS PTM software (Bioinformatics Solutions Inc.). Fragment ion tolerance was set to 0.1 D, and variable modifications per peptide were limited to three. Gas exchange analyses were performed on rosette leaves from 5-week-old plants in response to the imposed leaf [CO2] changes at 150-mmol m−2 s−1 light (Parabolic Aluminum Reflector) fluence rate using an Li6400XT Gas Exchange Analyzer fitted with a fluorimeter chamber (Li-Cor Inc.) as described in CITATION. Stomatal conductance was first stabilized at ambient [CO2] (400 μL L−1) for 30 min; then, unless otherwise noted in the figures, [CO2] was shifted to a high concentration (800 μL L−1) for 30, 60, or 90 min and again changed to a low concentration (100 μL L−1) for at least 30 min. Alternately, [CO2] was held at the ambient CO2 concentration for at least 30 min, shifted to a low concentration (100 μL L−1), and then changed to a high concentration for indicated times noted in the figures. The data presented are means of at least three leaves per genotype per treatment ± sem. Relative stomatal conductance values were determined by normalization relative to the average of 10 data points preceding the [CO2] transitions (400–800 μL L−1 or 400–100 μL L−1). A simplified model in guard cells for CO2 catalysis was constructed by modification of a model examining CO2 influx in oocytes (CITATION). The model describes the formation and dissociation of carbonic acid asalong with a reaction describing a non-CO2/HCO3− bufferwhere k1, k−1, k2, k−2, k3, and k−3 are rate constants. We incorporated CA-like activity by multiplying the rate constants k1 and k−1 by an acceleration factor A (CITATION). We assumed that the membrane is permeable to CO2 with a permeability constant Pm. The rate equations corresponding to the above reactions can be easily obtained. For example, for the CO2 concentration, we havewhere CO2ext is the external CO2 concentration. The resulting set of equations was solved using an algorithm suitable for stiff ordinary differential equations using parameter values in CITATION. As initial conditions, the initial internal and external CO2 concentration were set to 200 μL L−1, similar to CO2 conditions measured in leaves exposed to light (CITATION), whereas the internal and external pH levels were taken to be 7.4 and 6, respectively. Finally, the acceleration factor caused by CA activity was chosen to be five (CITATION). At the start of the simulation, the external CO2 concentration was set to 800 μL L−1. For determining the effects of CA localization, a small internal compartment representing an organelle, such as the chloroplast taking up 10% of the cell volume within a larger compartment that corresponds to the guard cell, was simulated. The organelle membrane was modeled as being permeable to either all components or exclusively CO2 using the same permeability constants as for the cell membrane. The acceleration factor within the compartment representing the ca1ca4 mutant guard cell’s cytosol was taken to be one, whereas this acceleration within the organelle, Aorg, was varied. As a starting point, we used the above-mentioned reaction-diffusion model of CO2 influx into a Xenopus laevis oocyte developed by CITATION. This model assumes that the cell is a perfectly symmetric sphere surrounded by a thin layer of extracellular unconvected fluid (EUF), which in turn, is surrounded by the bulk extracellular fluid (BECF). In both EUF and ICF, the model accounts for the CO2/HCO3− equilibrium, including the slow conversion of CO2 into H2CO3 and vice versa, and a multitude of non-CO2/HCO3− buffers. Solutes can diffuse within the EUF and ICF. The plasma membrane is infinitely thin and permeable to CO2. The EUF, ICF, and the plasma membrane have properties of pure water. Mathematically, the changes of solute concentrations in time and space are described by a coupled system of partial differential equations, which are solved assuming spherical radial symmetry (i.e. solute concentrations depend only on the radial distance from the center of the cell). Numerically, the system of partial differential equations is solved using the method of lines with appropriate spatial discretization schemes, and the resulting system of ordinary differential equations is solved using the MATLAB stiff ode solver, ode15s. The details of the numerical implementation are provided in CITATION. Here, we explain how we modified this model to account for guard cell dimensions and the experimental conditions in this study. We assumed that the guard cell is a sphere with a radius of 10 µm surrounded by a 5-µm-thick EUF. The EUF represents the aqueous solution in the space in the cell walls surrounding the guard cell. We assumed that the EUF contains only the CO2/HCO3− buffer system but that the ICF contains both a CO2/HCO3− buffer system and a single non-CO2/HCO3− buffer. For diffusion constants, rate constants, and the properties of the intracellular non-CO2/HCO3− buffer system, we used the values reported in CITATION. As done in the work by CITATION, we implemented CA-like activity by multiplying the rate constants k+1 and k−1 by the same acceleration factor A. We performed each of the three simulations illustrated in Figure 6B in two steps. First, we exposed the guard cell ([CO2]ICF = 0, pHICF 7.40) to a BECF-containing equilibrated CO2/HCO3− ([CO2]BECF = 200 μL L−1, pHBECF 6.00) and waited for the system to achieve equilibrium (i.e. [CO2]ICF = [CO2]BECF = 200 μL L−1). We ran this first simulation for 10,000 s (data not shown). Second, we used the final state of this first simulation to define the intracellular composition of the guard cell and ran a second simulation, in which we shifted [CO2]BECF from 200 to 800 μL L−1 and pHBECF to 6.00. Figure 6B shows the second of these simulations. Data are represented as mean ± sem unless otherwise noted. Comparisons between continuous variables were performed using the Student’s t test with a two-tailed distribution and two-sample equal variance. Sequence data from this article can be found in the GenBank/EMBL data libraries under accession numbers AT3G01500 for CA1 and AT1G70410 for CA4. The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Chloroplast mistargeted ΔCpIscA-CA4-GFP does not complement CO2 responsiveness of the ca1ca4 double mutant.
