!~ABS~! Arabidopsis synaptotagmin 2 (SYT2) has been reported to participate in an unconventional secretory pathway in somatic cells. Our results showed that SYT2 was expressed mainly in the pollen of Arabidopsis thaliana . The pollen of syt2 T-DNA and RNA interference mutant lines exhibited reduced total germination and impeded pollen tube growth. Analysis of the expression of SYT2-GFP fusion protein in the pollen tube indicates that SYT2 was localized to distinct, patchy compartments but could co-localize with the Golgi markers, BODIPY TR C5 ceramide and GmMan1-mCherry. However, SYT2-DsRed-E5 was localized to the plasma membrane in Arabidopsis suspension cells, in addition to the Golgi apparatus. The localization of SYT2 at the plasma membrane was further supported by immunofluorescence staining in pollen tubes. Moreover, brefeldin A treatment inhibited the transport of SYT2 to the plasma membrane and caused SYT2 to aggregate and form enlarged compartments. Truncation of the SYT2-C2AB domains also resulted in retention of SYT2 in the Golgi apparatus. An in vitro phospholipid-binding assay showed that SYT2-C2AB domains bind to the phospholipid membrane in a calcium-dependent manner. Take together, our results indicated that SYT2 was required for pollen germination and pollen tube growth, and was involved in conventional exocytosis.
!~RES~! To understand the physiological role of Arabidopsis SYT2 , we analyzed SYT2 gene expression in various organs using a gene-specific RT–PCR and a promoter:GUS reporter system. The result of real-time PCR showed that SYT2 was expressed mainly in freshly harvested and non-hydrated pollen grains, whereas its expression was relatively very low in roots, stems, leaves, and siliques ( CITATION A). The results of semi-quantitative RT–PCR also indicated a high level of SYT2 transcript in the inflorescence and stamens ( CITATION ). In a tissue-specific expression study of SYT2 , a native SYT2 promoter was fused to a GUS reporter gene and introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis . Two independent lines of pSYT2:GUS transgenic Arabidopsis (made by two different laboratories) were selected for an intermediate level of gene expression from a transgenic population according to quantitative fluorometric and qualitative histochemical GUS analyses. The histochemical and fluorometric GUS assay showed that the highest GUS activity was in the inflorescence ( CITATION B and CITATION A). Quantitative analysis of SYT2 promoter activity was conducted using one of the transgenic lines and showed that maximum activity was in flower buds, shortly before anthesis ( CITATION C), and the strongest signal was in stamens and, to a lesser extent, pistils ( CITATION D). Detailed histochemical examination suggested that the GUS staining was limited to developing female gametophytes (unfertilized embryo sacs; CITATION E) and developing male gametophytes (pollen grains; CITATION F and CITATION B). The growing pollen tubes showed strong GUS staining under in vitro conditions ( CITATION G). Since GUS staining was present both in ovules and pollen tubes, we performed reciprocal crossing of the pSYT 2: GUS transgenic line with wild-type Arabidopsis to discriminate these two signals after pollination. No GUS staining was observed in the wild-type ovules after pollination with transgenic pollen grains; nevertheless, the staining of transgenic pollen tubes was evident in the pistils ( CITATION H). These data suggested that SYT2 was also expressed in pollen tubes grown in vivo in pistils. On the other hand, after the pistils of transgenic plants were pollinated by pollen from wild-type plants, GUS staining of the fertilized and enlarged ovules became weaker and disappeared ( CITATION I), while the unpollinated ovules remained small and strongly stained ( CITATION J). These results suggested that SYT2 could play a role in the development of embryo sacs and pollen grains, as well as in the pollen germination and tip growth of pollen tubes. We obtained three Arabidopsis mutants, named syt2-1 , syt2-2 , and syt2-3 , from the SALK collection (i.e., SALK_133731, SALK_016690, and SALK_072947) with T-DNA located in the second intron, the ninth exon, and another position of the ninth exon of At1G20800, respectively ( CITATION A). Mutant lines with different T-DNA insertion sites on the SYT2 locus were screened by genomic PCR with SYT2 and T-DNA border-specific primers ( CITATION ). The genotyping results are shown in CITATION B. The level of the SYT2 transcript in syt2-2 was very low and could not be detected by RT–PCR. Syt2-1 and syt2-3 only showed a trace amount of SYT2 transcripts ( CITATION C). Arabidopsis RNAi lines were also generated to investigate the function of SYT2 ( CITATION ). One SYT2-RNAi line with reduced SYT2 ( RNAi-#5 ) expression was identified by RT–PCR ( CITATION C) and used for further investigation of phenotype. Pollen germination percentages of the homozygous T-DNA insertion mutants ( syt2-1 , syt2-2 , and syt2-3 ) and an RNAi line ( RNAi-#5 ) were calculated and compared with the wild-type by in vitro means of germination assays. Results showed that the relative germination efficiency of pollen from T-DNA mutants ranged from 54.6% to 78.2% at 5 h after imbibition, and the relative germination efficiency of pollen from the RNAi-#5 line was 52.0% ( CITATION D). We also calculated the germination percentages at 6.5 h after imbibition, and the data showed that both the SYT2 mutants and wild-type pollen grains already reached their maximal germination percentages after 5 h of imbibition ( CITATION ). The final pollen germination percentages of SYT2 mutants were lower than that of wild-type. These results indicated that SYT2 contributed to pollen viability. To determine whether mutation of the SYT2 gene affected pollen tube elongation, we measured the lengths of pollen tubes of wild-type and mutant lines germinated for 5 h on in vitro medium. Average lengths of the pollen tubes were 115 μm in the wild-type and from 77 to 100 μm in the mutants ( CITATION E). The homozygous syt2-1 , syt2-2 , syt2-3 , and RNAi-#5 lines represented a 13.1%, 18.3%, 25.2%, and 32.2% reduction in the average length of pollen tubes, respectively. More than 66% of wild-type pollen tubes were longer than 95 μm and only 0.3% were shorter than 55 μm. The mutants had a markedly lower percentage of pollen tubes longer than 95 μm, compared with the wild-type. The proportions of pollen tubes <55 μm were considerably higher in the mutant lines, especially the RNAi mutant. We found 30.9% of RNAi-#5 pollen tubes to be <55 μm ( CITATION E). We also measured the lengths of pollen tubes from 1 h to 3 h, and the results showed that the pollen of SYT2 mutants had already germinated and grown much the same length as that of wild-type at 1 h ( CITATION ). However, the growth rates of pollen tubes of SYT2 mutants were slower than that of wild-type after 1 h. In addition, the growth rates of pollen tubes of both wild-type and the mutant lines were very slow after 5 h of imbibition, but the growth rate of SYT2 mutant was still lower than that of wild-type ( CITATION ). Thus, we showed that the shorter pollen tubes of SYT2 mutants were not due to delayed germination but retarded elongation. These data demonstrated that the SYT2 gene also played a role in elongation of pollen tubes. Although the pollen tubes of SYT2 mutants were shorter than wild-type pollen tubes, the mutants exhibited pollen tubes long enough to accomplish fertilization, which may explain the lack of a marked difference in seed setting percentage between the mutants and wild-type plants. To evaluate the subcellular localization of SYT2, two plant expression systems were used, including stable expression of SYT2-GFP driven by a pLAT52 promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis and transient expression of SYT2-GFP in tobacco ( Nicotiana tabacum L.) pollen grains by microparticle bombardment with a pLAT52:SYT2-GFP construct. The results for both showed that the SYT2-GFP fusion protein was localized to distinct patches in the growing pollen tubes but rarely to the plasma membrane ( CITATION , CITATION Aa and 5Ac). In stable transgenic pLAT52:SYT2-GFP Arabidopsis , the SYT2-GFP-containing compartments were co-localized with the Golgi dye BODIPY TR C5 ceramide (B-34400; Invitrogen) and the Golgi marker GmMan1-mCh, the cytoplasmic tail and transmembrane domain of GmMan1 fused with mCherry ( CITATION ), which was transiently expressed by particle bombardment but not the endocytic vesicle marker FM4-64 and the ER-Tracker Blue-White DPX ( CITATION A). To further examine the subcellular localization of SYT2-GFP, we treated the pollen tubes with the secretion inhibitor BFA (35.6 μM) and the late endosomes/autophagy inhibitor wortmannin (10 μM) for 30 min after 3 h of germination. The results showed that SYT2-GFP formed enlarged aggregates after BFA treatment and decorated around the FM4-64-stained BFA compartments featuring the Golgi localization of SYT2-GFP ( CITATION B). Wortmannin slightly changed the morphology of SYT2-GFP vesicles in the pollen tubes, but SYT2-GFP was not accumulated into the wortmannin-induced multivesicular compartments indicating that SYT2-GFP was not localized to the trans-Golgi network and the prevacuoles ( CITATION B). As a control, the cytosolic GFP protein alone showed diffuse distribution in the cytoplasm and nucleus in tobacco pollen tubes ( CITATION Ab). The results of transiently transforming pLAT52:SYT2-GFP and pLAT52:GFP into tobacco pollen showed results similar to those in Arabidopsis ( CITATION C). To confirm the subcellular localization of SYT2 in pollen tubes, we performed immunofluorescence labeling of SYT2 using a SYT2-specific antibody. The results indicated that SYT2 was localized not only to the Golgi apparatus but also to the plasma membrane in pollen tubes ( CITATION ). However, since the SYT2-GFP fluorescence signal was very weak on the margin of transgenic pollen tubes, it was difficult to determine if SYT2 was located on the plasma membrane or the endocytosis-derived vesicles in the pollen tubes. To confirm that SYT2 was localized to the plasma membrane, we first examined the subcellular localization of SYT2 by expressing SYT2-GFP in Arabidopsis suspension cells and found that the SYT2-GFP signal had a patchy distribution around the nucleus in suspension cells, whereas GFP alone showed diffuse localization in the cytosol and inside the nucleus ( CITATION B). However, the SYT2-GFP signal near the plasma membrane in suspension cells was too weak to be imaged clearly. Previous studies showed that DsRed-E5 changes its fluorescence color over time, shifting from green to red fluorescence after maturation. The ratio of green to red fluorescence can be used to estimate the age of the fusion protein ( CITATION ). Therefore, we employed DsRed-E5 to label SYT2 and established a stably transformed Arabidopsis suspension cell line expressing SYT2-DsRed-E5 driven by a 35S promoter. The SYT2-DsRed-E5 fusion protein in suspension cells displayed a patchy distribution similar to that of SYT2-GFP in tobacco and Arabidopsis pollen tubes. Moreover, SYT2-DsRed-E5 fluorescence signal was also clearly detected on the plasma membrane in the red fluorescence channel ( CITATION A), while DsRed-E5 alone was diffusely distributed in the cytoplasm and inside the nuclei ( CITATION C). A z-stack projection of the images in CITATION A is shown in CITATION B. By comparing the fluorescent lines on the cell periphery (indicated by arrows in CITATION A and 4B) with the non-fluorescent trans-vacuolar cytoplasmic strands (indicated by arrows in CITATION C), we inferred that the fine fluorescent lines were not on the tonoplast but on the plasma membrane. In addition, the plasmolysis assay indicated that SYT2 was not localized to the cell wall ( CITATION D). Detailed analysis of the punctate structures around the nucleus revealed that these spots emitted both green and red fluorescence. Moreover, green fluorescence on the punctate structures around the nucleus was considerably stronger than that on the plasma membrane, while the red fluorescence showed a less marked difference ( CITATION A and 4C). This result indicated that the SYT2-DsRed-E5 proteins localized to the Golgi apparatus around the nucleus were newly synthesized and those localized to the plasma membrane represented the older SYT2-DsRed-E5 population. To further characterize the spatiotemporal dynamics of SYT2-DsRed-E5, we performed quantitative analysis and calculated the ratio of green to red fluorescence intensity on vesicles around the nuclei (V 1 ), vesicles near the plasma membrane (V 2 ), and the plasma membrane (M) from the original grayscale images ( CITATION A). As shown in CITATION B, the green fluorescence on both V 1 and V 2 vesicles was stronger than the red fluorescence, as the green/red signal ratio of V 1 was 7.6:1 and that of V 2 was 6.8:1 ( CITATION B). Red fluorescence on the plasma membrane was stronger than the green fluorescence, as the green/red signal ratio of the plasma membrane was 1:5.2 ( CITATION B). The intensities of green and red fluorescence signals of DsRed-E5 alone in the cells were similar, with a green/red signal ratio of 1.7 ( CITATION B). A previous study reported that a red/green ratio ≥1 indicated that the DsRed-E5 protein was produced more than 10 h ago in vitro in Caenorhabditis elegans cells ( CITATION ), and approximately more than 30 h ago in cowpea mesophyll protoplasts ( CITATION ). This indicated that the majority of SYT2-DsRed-E5 proteins on the plasma membrane had been synthesized at least 10 h previously, which demonstrated that the SYT2 protein was transported from the Golgi apparatus to the plasma membrane over time. We further examined the localization of SYT2-DsRed-E5 in the suspension cells after treatment with the secretion inhibitor BFA. Compared with untreated cells, cells treated with BFA for 20 and 40 min displayed enlarged SYT2 vesicle aggregates, and the fluorescence signal of SYT2-DsRed-E5 on the plasma membrane was reduced ( CITATION and CITATION ). Quantitative analyses of the green/red fluorescence signal ratio of the vesicles and plasma membrane at different time points with BFA treatment are shown in CITATION D. The results showed that the green/red fluorescence ratio of vesicles decreased over time following treatment with BFA. For the plasma membrane, the green/red fluorescence ratio was increased after BFA treatment ( CITATION D). The intensities of DsRed-E5 green and red fluorescence signals in the suspension cells were approximately the same ( CITATION D). These results suggested that the newly synthesized SYT2-DsRed-E5 protein was mainly incorporated into the BFA compartments and was not transported to the plasma membrane, whereas old SYT2-DsRed-E5 protein seemed to be retained on the plasma membrane. The results showed clearly that SYT2 was transferred to the plasma membrane via the conventional secretory pathway in Arabidopsis suspension cells. Arabidopsis SYT2 contains two C2 domains, C2A and C2B. C2A was 62.4% similar to SYT1 and C2B was 73.5% similar to SYT1 ( CITATION ). To characterize the role of C2 domains in the localization of SYT2, we created a potential dominant-negative SYT2 mutant lacking the C2A and C2B domains ( SYT2 ΔC2AB ). Similar to SYT2-GFP, SYT2 ΔC2AB -GFP accumulated in distinct patches in the cytoplasm ( CITATION A) and was highly co-localized with the C5-ceramide-stained Golgi apparatus ( CITATION B). SYT2 ΔC2AB -DsRed-E5 also showed distinct patchy distribution in the cytoplasm ( CITATION C), and there was no obvious difference between the distributions of SYT2 ΔC2AB -GFP and SYT2 ΔC2AB -DsRed-E5. However, unlike the full length of SYT2-DsRed-E5 ( CITATION ), only a trace amount of SYT2 ΔC2AB -DsRed-E5 red fluorescence was detected on the plasma membrane ( CITATION C). These results suggested that the C2 domains of SYT2 played a role in directing SYT2 to the plasma membrane. We further investigated whether the C2 domains of SYT2 could bind to the negatively charged liposomes (25% phosphatidylserine [PS]/75% phosphatidylcholine [PC]), and found that the SYT2-C2A peptide was able to bind a phospholipid in a calcium-dependent manner ( CITATION A). The maximum concentration of free Ca 2+ binding to SYT2-C2A was 7 μM, and a higher calcium ion concentration did not increase binding of SYT2-C2A to the liposomes. Moreover, binding of SYT2-C2B to the liposomes was calcium-independent ( CITATION B). SYT2-C2B was associated with liposomes in the absence of free Ca 2+ , and this binding was not enhanced by increased calcium concentration. The binding property of SYT2-C2AB differed from those of the two individual domains; indeed, SYT2-C2AB behaved as an approximate mixture of C2A and C2B. Half-maximal binding of C2AB to phospholipids was approximately 2–3 μM of free Ca 2+ ( CITATION C), while that of C2A was about 4–5 μM ( CITATION A). As controls, all the C2 domains of SYT2 were subjected to different concentrations of Na + and Mg 2+ . The effects of Na + ( CITATION ) and Mg 2+ ( CITATION ) on the binding of SYT2 C2 domains with liposomes were found to be insignificant. These data indicated that the C2 domains of SYT2 were bound to phospholipids in membranes and that this binding was regulated by calcium ions.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Col-0) seeds were planted in pots in a 3:1 nutritional soil/vermiculite mix. After 2 days at 4°C, the seeds were grown with supplemental lighting (16-h photoperiod at 120–150 μmol/m 2 /s at 22°C CITATION ). Seeds of T-DNA insertion lines and RNAi transgenic lines were disinfected with 1% sodium hypochlorite and washed with sterile water, and then sown in Murashige and Skoog medium with 0.8% agar ( CITATION ). The 2-week-old seedlings were then transferred to pots and grown for 4 weeks under the light conditions described above. The Arabidopsis T-DNA insertion lines (SALK_133731, SALK_016690, and SALK_072947, identified as syt2-1 , syt2-2 , and syt2-3 , respectively) were obtained from the SALK T-DNA collection. Homozygosity of mutant lines was confirmed by PCR analysis of genomic DNA, using the specific primers listed in CITATION . The expression of the SYT2 gene in the homozygous mutant lines was determined by RT–PCR. PCR products were verified by sequencing. The sense and antisense DNA fragments of the SYT2 exon, amplified using specific primers ( CITATION ), were subcloned into pFGC1008. The construct was transformed into the Arabidopsis genome using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens -mediated method. Hygromycin-resistant transgenic Arabidopsis plants were screened and confirmed by genomic PCR analysis by amplifying the GUS segment of pFGC1008. The expression of SYT2 in transgenic plants was confirmed by RT–PCR using the primer sets for real-time PCR ( CITATION ). Total RNA was isolated from various plant tissues using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen), according to the manufacturer's instructions. A quantity of 5-μg total RNA was used for reverse transcription with the RevertAid First Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (Fermentas), according to the manufacturer's instructions. Real-time PCR analysis was conducted using the SYBR Green PCR Master Mix (ABI), referring to the manufacturer's instructions. The data were processed using the 7000 SDS software. The Actin2 gene was used as an internal control ( CITATION ). The specific primers for each gene are listed in CITATION . This experiment was conducted three times independently, and the means and standard deviations were calculated. For semi-quantitative RT–PCR, PCR analysis was performed on 15 μl using the GoTaq Hot Start Polymerase (Promega) on an Eppendorf Mastercycler Pro instrument (Eppendorf). The following amplification program was used: one cycle at 95°C for 3 min, 35 cycles for SYT2 gene and 30 cycles for reference genes at 95°C for 15 s, 56°C for 30 s, 73°C for 30 s, and then one cycle at 73°C for 5 min. The primers are listed in CITATION . Band intensities were analyzed using the ImageJ software. This experiment was repeated twice independently. A fragment of 2014 bp, upstream from the start codon in the gene At1G20080, was amplified using the primers listed in CITATION and cloned into the expression vector pCAMBIA1305.1, and then transformed into Arabidopsis by Agrobacterium tumefaciens . Homozygous lines were obtained and the histochemical GUS assays were performed as described ( CITATION ). Protein was extracted with 50 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.3) supplemented with 10 mM EDTA, 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100, 0.1% (w/v) SDS, and 10 mM dithiothreitol. The fluorometric analysis reaction was performed in black 96-well microtiter plates (NUNC) in darkness at 37°C. The 50 μl of extraction buffer contained 1 mM 4-methylumbelliferyl-β-D-glucuronide as substrate and 1 μg of total protein. After 1 h, the reaction was stopped by addition of 150 μl of carbonate buffer (200 mM) and fluorescence intensity was measured using a multidetection Tecan Infinite M20 microplate reader (Tecan Trading AG) with 362 (±9) nm excitation and 450 (±20) nm emission. Protein concentration was measured using the Lowry-based Bio-Rad DC protein assay (Bio-Rad). Pollen grains from freshly anther-dehisced flowers of wild-type and mutant Arabidopsis plants were germinated in 35-mm petri dishes at room temperature for 5 h on basic medium (20% sucrose, 5 mM boric acid, 8 mM MgSO 4 , 5 mM CaCl 2 , 1 mM KCl, 10 mM inositol, and 5 mM MES-KOH [pH 7.0]; CITATION ), and observed using a Zeiss Observer Z1 microscope. At least 100 pollen tubes were chosen randomly for length measurements using Axio software (version 4.0). Pollen germination in this study refers to the length of pollen tube exceeding half the pollen diameter. Average lengths and standard errors over several hundred pollen tubes were computed. All experiments were repeated at least three times. All the fluorescent dyes and inhibitors were diluted in the basic medium with the final working concentrations indicated in the figure legends. DNA sequences encoding the C2A domain of SYT2 located from amino acids 244 to 400, the C2B domain (401–537), and C2AB tandem (247–537), were ligated into a pGEX-2z vector. Purification of GST fusion protein was carried out as described previously ( CITATION ). Binding of C2 domains (C2A, C2B, and C2AB) of SYT2 to phospholipids was measured according to previous descriptions ( CITATION ). Phospholipids (PS/PC = 25:75, w/w; Avanti Polar Lipids) were used in this experiment. Calcium concentrations were calculated using the Winmaxc32 (version 2.51) software downloaded from http://www.stanford.edu/∼cpatton/downloads.htm . The proteins were detected by SDS–PAGE. The Coomassie Brilliant Blue-stained gels were scanned using Bio-Rad ChemiDoc XRS and then analyzed using the Quantity One software. Tobacco was planted in a controlled growth chamber at 25°C with 16 h daylight. The pollen grains were collected from anthers that had not dehisced on SR1 flowers. All plasmid DNA was prepared using the UltraClean Endotoxin-Free Maxi Plasmid Prep Kit (Beijing ZEPING Bioscience). Golgi marker GmMan1-mCherry (G-rk, CD3-967) was purchased from the Arabidopsis stock center ( http://www.arabidopsis.org ). A quantity of 10 mg of mature pollen grains was used in each bombardment. Pollen germination medium (0.01% H 3 BO 3 , 1 mM MgSO 4 , 5 mM CaCl 2 , 5 mM Ca(NO 3 ) 2 , 18% sucrose, and 20 mM MES [pH 6.5–7.0]) was prepared to incubate pollen grains ( CITATION ). Pollen suspension was spotted and solidified on a nylon membrane in 90-mm petri dishes. Gene bombardment was performed using the helium-driven PDS-1000/He system (Bio-Rad). Plasmid DNA, 0.1 M spermidine, and 2.5 M CaCl 2 were attached to gold particles (1 μm), according to the Bio-Rad manual ( CITATION ). A total of 3 mg of DNA was used to coat 1 mg of gold particles. Each prepared sample was bombarded twice toward an individual pollen sample to improve the frequency of transformation. Bombardments were performed under the following conditions: 71-cm (28-inch) Hg chamber vacuum, 1100-psi rupture disc, 6.4 mm (0.25-inch) gap distance, and 2.5-cm (1 inch) particle travel distance. Boomed pollen grains were washed from the nylon membrane using germination medium and germinated in 35-mm petri dishes with shaking at 60 rpm in the dark. Pollen tubes were observed using an Olympus FV300-IX700 laser scanning confocal microscope. Images were analyzed using an FV1000 viewer (version 1.6). Stable transformation of Arabidopsis callus (induced from seeds of Col-0 ecotype) was performed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101) according to methods described previously ( CITATION ). The plant expression vector pCAMBIA1300.1, containing 35S-SYT2-GFP-tNOS , 35S-SYT2 ΔC2AB -GFP-tNOS , 35S-GFP-tNOS , 35S-SYT2-DsRed-E5-tNOS, 35S-SYT2 ΔC2AB -DsRed-E5-tNOS , and 35S-DsRed-E5-tNOS constructs, was used for transformation. Confocal microscopy was performed using an Olympus FV-300-IX70 confocal laser scanning microscope. ER-Tracker Blue-White DPX was excited with the diode laser (405 nm) and the emission was detected between 425 and 475 nm. GFP was excited with the blue argon ion laser (488 nm), and emitted light was collected through a 510-nm long-pass filter. The red fluorescent dyes FM4-64 and BODIPY TR C5 ceramide (B-34400; Invitrogen) were excited with a green HeNe laser (543 nm), and emitted light was collected through a 620-nm bandpass filter. The excitation/emission wavelengths of DsRed-E5 were 483/500 nm for green fluorescence and 558/583 nm for red fluorescence. Differential interference contrast microscopy images were collected synchronously. Images were analyzed using an Olympus FV1000 viewer (version 1.6). A ×60 oil-immersion objective was used for scanning. Serial confocal optical sections were taken at a step size of 0.5–0.7 μm.
