!~ABS~! Turnip yellows virus (TuYV), a phloem-limited virus, encodes a 74 kDa protein known as the readthrough protein (RT) involved in virus movement. We show here that a TuYV mutant deleted of the C-terminal part of the RT protein (TuYV-∆RT Cter ) was affected in long-distance trafficking in a host-specific manner. By using the C-terminal domain of the RT protein as a bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen of a phloem cDNA library from Arabidopsis thaliana we identified the calcineurin B-like protein-interacting protein kinase-7 (AtCIPK7). Transient expression of a GFP:CIPK7 fusion protein in virus-inoculated Nicotiana benthamiana leaves led to local increase of wild-type TuYV accumulation, but not that of TuYV-∆RT Cter . Surprisingly, elevated virus titer in inoculated leaves did not result in higher TuYV accumulation in systemic leaves, which indicates that virus long-distance movement was not affected. Since GFP:CIPK7 was localized in or near plasmodesmata, CIPK7 could negatively regulate TuYV export from infected cells.
!~RES~! To investigate more precisely the function of the C-terminal domain of the TuYV-RT protein (RT Cter ) in the virus cycle, a deletion was introduced downstream of a position (lysine 437) identified by mass spectrometry as the last C-terminal amino acid of the RT* ( CITATION ). The deletion starts at glutamine at position 471, since we previously showed that a nucleotide sequence encompassing lysine 437 was strictly required for the readthrough mechanism of the CP ( CITATION ), and ends at the last amino acid of the RT protein (phenylalanine 670). The deletion was generated in the RT sequence of TuYV-NM, a wild-type virus variant in which two unique restriction sites were introduced into the RT sequence ( CITATION A) ( CITATION ). The deletion mutant, designed hereafter as TuYV-∆RT Cter, was lacking the 200 C-terminal amino acids of the RT protein ( CITATION A). In vitro synthesized transcripts of TuYV-∆RT Cter were fully competent for replication in plant protoplasts and produced a truncated RT protein of about 60 kDa migrating slightly above the RT* ( CITATION B). To address the ability of TuYV-∆RT Cter to infect whole plants, the virus mutant was introduced into a binary vector under the control of the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and inoculated to different plant species. When assayed by DAS-ELISA, TuYV-∆RT Cter accumulated in agroinfiltrated leaves of Montia perfoliata and N. benthamiana at a level close to TuYV-NM and TuYV-WT ( CITATION ). This comparable accumulation in M. perfoliata was confirmed by Western-blot showing similar levels of CP accumulation in leaves infiltrated with TuYV-WT or TuYV-∆RT Cter (data not shown). Virus titer was then measured on young non-inoculated leaves of M. perfoliata , A. thaliana and N. benthamiana 4 weeks after inoculation. TuYV-∆RT Cter was infectious in M. perfoliata and A. thaliana however at a lower level compared to TuYV-WT and -NM but the mutant was unable to systemically infect N. benthamiana ( CITATION ). TuYV-∆RT Cter accumulation in systemic leaves of M. perfoliata remained at a low level during eight weeks in three independent experiments ( CITATION ). In contrast to what was previously reported for a PLRV mutant lacking the C-terminal part of the RT protein ( CITATION ), TuYV-∆RT Cter was unable to escape from phloem cells (data not shown). Our results show that long-distance movement of TuYV-∆RT Cter is reduced, or even completely inhibited as observed in N. benthamiana , suggesting an important function of RT Cter in long-distance movement of TuYV. Moreover this function seems host-specific. In order to unravel the function of RT Cter in the phloem-restricted infection cycle of TuYV, we looked for cellular partners of this viral domain. A phloem enriched cDNA library of A. thaliana was directly constructed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y187, using total RNA extracted from companion cell protoplasts. These phloem enriched cells were isolated from transgenic A. thaliana expressing the GFP under the control of the AtSUC2 companion cell promoter ( CITATION ). Fluorescent protoplasts were sorted by Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting (FACS) and sorting efficacy was controlled by measuring expression of companion cell specific genes by real-time PCR ( CITATION ). The cDNA library cloned into the pGADT7 vector contained an average insert size of about 750 nucleotides and had a titer of 1.5×10 7 cfu/ml. The TuYV-RT Cter was expressed as a fusion with the GAL4 DNA binding domain (BD) in Y2HGold yeast strain and subsequently used as a bait. Screening of the phloem cDNA library was performed by yeast mating. A cDNA clone encoding the C-terminal sequence of the CIPK7 from A. thaliana referred thereafter as AtCIPK7 (AT3G23000, residues 346-429) was identified as a potential interacting partner of the viral domain. CBL-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs) are a group of serine/threonine protein kinases that interact with the Ca 2+ sensors Calcineurin B-like proteins (CBLs) ( CITATION ). AtCIPK7 is expressed in all cell types including phloem cells ( CITATION ). Vascular expression of this gene was confirmed by analyzing RNAseq data from A. thaliana companion cells-enriched RNA (Chapuis, personal communication). To confirm the interaction, the plasmid bearing the partial AtCIPK7 cDNA sequence (referred to hereafter as pGAD-CIPK7 346-429 ) was introduced into Y2HGold yeast strain together with pGBKT7-RT Cter . Serial dilutions of the co-transformed cells were plated onto a medium lacking leucine and tryptophan [-LW], to allow yeast growth after transformation, and onto the [-LWHA] medium (LW medium deprived of histidine and adenine) to select yeast cells in which in vivo interactions occurred ( CITATION ). Interestingly, we observed that RT Cter was able to interact with the full-length AtCIPK7, a protein of 429 amino acids, but not with the first 283 N-terminal amino acids of AtCIPK7 ( CITATION ). No yeast growth was observed on [-LWHA] medium when pGBKT7-RT Cter was co-transformed with empty pGADT7 or pGAD.GH vectors. These results show that RT Cter preferentially binds a region localized at the C-terminus of AtCIPK7. This interaction was specific because no binding was recorded in yeast between the C-terminal domain of AtCIPK7 and the major (CP) and minor (RT*) coat proteins of TuYV. Interaction between AtCIPK7 and the complete RT protein could not be assessed because the full-length readthrough domain of the protein activated transcription of both ADE2 and HIS3 reporter genes when expressed alone (data not shown). To confirm the physical interaction between the C-terminal domain of AtCIPK7 and the RT Cter , GFP was fused to the N-terminus of AtCIPK7 (GFP:CIPK7) and expressed transiently with RFP:RT Cter by agroinfiltration in N. benthamiana . The cell extracts were immunopurified with anti-GFP beads to pull down GFP:CIPK7-complexes, and the immunoprecipitated products were fractionated by SDS-PAGE and detected with anti-RFP or anti-GFP antibodies. RFP:RT Cter of 53 kDa expected molecular weight was detected in the leaf extracts together with a larger product of ca 60 kDa ( CITATION A left panel) which may correspond to a post-translational modified form of the protein. The two products corresponding to RFP:RT Cter were detected in the immunocaptured complex together with GFP:CIPK7 ( CITATION A, right panel). No such products were present in the leaf extracts infiltrated with GFP and RFP:RT Cter ( CITATION A, right panel). To verify that the complex formation was due to an interaction of GFP:CIPK7 with RT Cter and not with RFP, we performed the same assay replacing the RFP:RT Cter construct by RFP in the agroinfiltration experiment. No RFP protein was immunoprecipitated when GFP:CIPK7 was present ( CITATION A, right panel) confirming the specific interaction between CIPK7 and RT Cter . The presence of the GFP:CIPK7 on the anti-GFP beads was moreover confirmed by the detection of the fusion protein of 73 kDa in the leaf extracts infiltrated with GFP:CIPK7 construct ( CITATION B, right panel). This experiment confirmed that GFP:CIPK7 interacts with RT Cter. To address the function of AtCIPK7 in the TuYV cycle, we first analyzed virus accumulation in an A. thaliana cipk7 knock-out mutant (T-DNA insertion, SALK_124117). The T-DNA insertion encompasses the 3’ terminal coding and non-coding sequences of AtCIPK7 . The absence of AtCIPK7 mRNA detection in the cipk7 mutant was confirmed by RT-PCR ( CITATION ). Homozygous plants were inoculated with TuYV using viruliferous aphids, and viral accumulation was measured three weeks post-inoculation in the non-inoculated leaves by DAS-ELISA. In two independent experiments, no significant difference in virus accumulation was observed in cipk7 when compared with TuYV accumulation in Col-0 ( CITATION ). Genome analysis identified at least 25 CIPK genes in A. thaliana ( CITATION ), and CIPK4 displays the highest homology with CIPK7 (73% of amino acid identity). Functional redundancy between the different CIPK proteins is likely, which may explain the absence of differential virus accumulation between cipk7 and Col-0 plants. In another set of experiments, we investigated the effect of overexpression of AtCIPK7 on TuYV accumulation. N. benthamiana leaves were co-infiltrated with a TuYV full-length clone together with the AtCIPK7 fusion construct where GFP was placed at the N-terminus of the protein (GFP:CIPK7). As controls, leaves were co-infiltrated with the viral clone and the free GFP or the AtCIPK7 fused to GFP at its C-terminus (CIPK7:GFP). Expression of the AtCIPK7-GFP fusion proteins was confirmed by Western-blot three days after infiltration ( CITATION ). Virus accumulation could not be assessed in infiltrated leaves by real-time RT-PCR because of the presence of viral transcripts deriving from the Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV)-35S promoter provided by the recombinant agrobacteria. We therefore used DAS-ELISA to evaluate virus titer since the structural proteins (measured in this assay) are expressed from the sub-genomic RNA and thus substantiate genuine viral replication. When TuYV was co-expressed with CIPK7:GFP or with free GFP, no statistical difference (Kruskal–Wallis analysis, P -value˃0.05) in virus accumulation was observed three days post-inoculation in infiltrated tissue ( CITATION A). Conversely, when GFP was positioned at the N-terminus of AtCIPK7 (GFP:CIPK7) releasing a free AtCIPK7 C-terminus, co-expression of this protein with the virus caused a significant increase in TuYV accumulation in infiltrated tissue (Kruskal–Wallis analysis, P -value˂0.05). This fostering local effect of GFP:CIPK7 expression on the TuYV titer was observed in three additional independent experiments ( CITATION ) with a significant virus increase when the fusion protein was present. In order to evaluate the ratio of such increase, an additional independent experiment was performed where the tested leaf samples were diluted and the OD values were referred to a linear standard curve of known amounts of TuYV virions loaded on the same microplate. The raise in virus accumulation reached a 16 fold increase in the presence of GFP:CIPK7 ( CITATION B). A similar stimulating effect of AtCIPK7 on virus accumulation was observed with BMYV, a closely related polerovirus ( CITATION ). In contrast to TuYV, both CIPK7-GFP constructs induced a moderate increase of BMYV accumulation (2 times more virus when AtCIPK was overexpressed) ( CITATION ). In order to assess whether the effect of AtCIPK7 on local virus accumulation was linked to its ability to bind RT Cter , TuYV-∆RT Cter was co-infiltrated in N. benthamiana leaves with GFP:CIPK7 or GFP as a control. As shown in CITATION C, no stimulating effect of GFP:CIPK was observed on TuYV-∆RT Cter titer in infiltrated leaves while an increase of TuYV-WT accumulation was visible when the AtCIPK7-fusion protein was present. The results of a second experiment are shown in CITATION . Together these data clearly indicate that RT Cter domain is essential to foster AtCIPK7’s action on virus accumulation in inoculated leaves. When leaves are agroinoculated, epidermal and mesophyll cells are mostly targeted but we assume that the stimulatory effect of AtCIPK7 on TuYV accumulation, observed in these cells, occurs also in phloem cells. To investigate whether the TuYV titer increase monitored in leaves transiently expressing GFP:CIPK7 would affect viral long-distance movement, and further accumulation in systemic leaves, upper non-infiltrated leaves of plants co-infiltrated with TuYV and GFP:CIPK7 or TuYV and GFP constructs, were assayed by DAS-ELISA three to four weeks post-inoculation in two independent experiments. Surprisingly, the higher accumulation of TuYV observed in leaves co-infiltrated with GFP:CIPK did not result in elevated virus titer in systemic leaves ( CITATION ). A lower level of virus accumulation was even observed in one experiment when GFP:CIPK was co-expressed with TuYV ( CITATION , Exp. 1). These results show that a higher local TuYV titer in infiltrated leaves transiently overexpressing GFP:CIPK7 did not lead to an increase in virus accumulation in systemic leaves. In order to examine the subcellular localization of both fusion proteins, GFP:CIPK7 and CIPK7:GFP, N. benthamiana leaves were agroinfiltrated with the corresponding constructs and epidermal cells were observed by confocal microscopy 48 h post-infiltration. GFP:CIPK7 was localized in the nucleus and the cytoplasm ( CITATION A). Interestingly, GFP:CIPK7 co-localized with the plasmodesmata marker PDLP1 fused to RFP ( CITATION ) suggesting that GFP-CIPK might be located in or near plasmodesmata ( CITATION A, second row, three right panels). On the other hand, the CIPK7:GFP construct, which had no visible effect on virus accumulation, was present in the nucleus and the cytoplasm and was never observed in plasmodesmata ( CITATION B). These observations point to a correlation between the plasmodesmata targeting of GFP:CIPK7 and its biological effect on virus accumulation. Since we observed that overexpression of GFP-CIPK7 affected TuYV accumulation, we addressed the issue of a putative feed-back effect of TuYV infection on the expression of AtCIPK7 mRNA. To answer this question accumulation of AtCIPK7 transcripts was quantified by qRT-PCR in A. thaliana plants inoculated with TuYV using viruliferous aphids. Myzus persicae were allowed to acquire purified virus particles from an artificial diet before being transferred onto A. thaliana Col-0 plants. As a control, aphids fed on the artificial diet free of virions were similarly deposited onto test plants. Aphids were eliminated by an insecticide treatment four days after loading and RNA was extracted from newly developed leaves 10 or 21 days post-aphid infestation (dpai). The presence of viral RNA in systemic leaves of individual plants was first tested by RT-PCR before combining the RNA samples of infected plants for qRT-PCR analysis. While no difference in AtCIPK7 expression was observed among infected and non-infected plants 10 dpai, a moderate reduction (20%) of AtCIPK7 mRNA accumulation was detected 21 dpai ( CITATION ).
!~MM~! To obtain TuYV-ΔRT Cter , the TuYV mutant bearing a deletion of the C-terminal part of the RT protein (RT Cter ), conventional PCR cloning techniques were employed. The plasmid pBWNhe/Mlu (referred thereafter as pTuYV-NM), containing the full-length sequence of TuYV (previously referred to as Beet western yellows virus ) with two additional restriction sites NheI and MluI ( CITATION ) was used as template for PCR amplification using the oligonucleotides listed in CITATION . The PCR fragment was digested by NheI and MluI enzymes and introduced into the NheI-MluI-digested pTuYV-NM to yield the pTuYV-ΔRT Cter . To generate the plasmid used for agroinoculation, the SpeI–SalI fragment from pTuYV-ΔRT Cter was subsequently subcloned into pBinTuYV-GΔRN ( CITATION ) digested with the same enzymes. The plasmid constructs were verified by DNA sequencing. The resulting plasmid was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens C58C1 ( CITATION ) for agroinoculation. A binary construct containing the full-length clone of Beet mild yellowing virus (BMYV) and introduced into A. tumefaciens was also used in the agroinoculation experiments ( CITATION ). A. tumefaciens harboring the binary plasmids was grown to an optical density (OD) at 600 nm of 0.5 and agroinfiltrated into different plant species ( CITATION ). Inoculated plants were assayed by double-antibody sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (DAS-ELISA) ( CITATION ) with an antiserum raised against TuYV (Loewe, Kronach, Germany). For each plant, 3 to 4 pieces of different leaves were collected and ground together. A. thaliana Col-0 was also inoculated with TuYV using 5 aphids per plant which had previously been fed on purified virus (50 µg/ml) ( CITATION ). Protoplasts of Chenopodium quinoa were inoculated with viral RNA transcripts by electroporation as described by CITATION ). Proteins were extracted from 50,000 protoplasts 72 h after inoculation and analyzed by Western blot using coat protein- and RT-specific antibodies ( CITATION ). Total RNA was extracted from fluorescent protoplasts expressing the GFP under the control of the AtSUC2 companion cell specific promoter (Chapuis et al., in preparation) using a RNeasy Plant mini kit (Qiagen) and following the manufacturer's instructions. Isolated RNA was used to construct an A. thaliana companion cell specific cDNA library in the pGADT7 vector, directly in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain Y187, following the protocol from the “Mate and Plate” library system (Clontech). Y2HGold yeast cells, containing the reporter genes HIS3 and ADE2, were transformed with a construct expressing the C-terminal part of the RT protein sequence (nts 4768–5495) fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain (BD) into the pGBKT7 vector, and the resulting fusion protein was used as a bait. The phloem cDNA library was screened against the bait by yeast mating using the Matchmaker ™ Gold Yeast Two-Hybrid Gal4 promoter-based system (Clontech) as described by the manufacturer. Selection of the colonies in which interactions occurred was made by plating yeast cells onto minimal synthetically defined medium for yeast (SD medium) deprived of leucine, tryptophan, histidine and adenine [-LWHA]. The prey fragments of the yeast clones developing on the selective media were amplified by PCR and sequenced. The resulting sequences were used to identify the corresponding interacting proteins in the GenBank database. The N-terminal domain of AtCIPK7 covering the first 283 amino acid residues was amplified by RT-PCR and cloned into the pGADT7 vector between EcoRI and BamHI sites to yield pGAD-CIPK7 1-283 using the primers listed in CITATION . The AtCIPK7 full-length sequence, cloned into the pGAD.GH vector (pGAD-CIPK7-FL 1-429 ), was kindly provided by Kudla. In order to test the interaction of pGAD-CIPK7-FL 1-429 , pGAD-CIPK7 1-283 , and pGAD-CIPK7 346-429 with pGBKT7-RT Cter , Y2HGold yeast cells were co-transformed with one of the pGAD-derived constructs and with pGBKT7-RT Cter using the lithium acetate method. Co-transformed yeast cells were selected on SD medium lacking leucine and tryptophan [-LW] before being spotted onto SD [-LWHA] after serial dilutions in 2% glucose ( A 600 = 1 to 10 −4 ). Yeast cells were grown at 23 °C for 8 days. All experiments were performed in triplicate. Empty pGADT7 or pGAD. GH vectors were used as negative controls. The full-length coding sequence of AtCIPK7 was amplified by RT-PCR from total RNA extracted from A. thaliana (RNeasy plant mini kit, Qiagen). AtCIPK7 constructs fused to GFP and RT Cter (nt 4767 to 5495) fused to RFP were generated by the Gateway technology according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen). Briefly, the AtCIPK7 and the RT Cter sequences were recombined into the Gateway donor plasmid pDONR207 (Invitrogen) to yield entry clones which were subsequently analyzed by sequencing. The entry clones were further used for recombination with the destination vectors pK7WGF2 or pK7FWG2 for expression of AtCIPK7 fused with GFP at, respectively, its N- or C-terminus and pH7WGR2 for expression of RT Cter fused with RFP at its N-terminus ( CITATION ). The primers containing attB1 and attB2 recombination sequences that were used to generate Gateway constructs are listed in CITATION . A. tumefaciens C58C1 was transformed with the recombinant Gateway constructs and three to four week old N. benthamiana plants infiltrated ( CITATION ). All infiltrations were performed in the presence of the RNA silencing suppressor of Tobacco bushy stunt virus , the P19 protein. Immunoprecipitation was done on N. benthamiana leaves 3 days after infiltration using anti-GFP microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec) according manufacturer's instructions, except for lysis and washing buffers. Briefly, samples were ground in liquid nitrogen and extracted with lysis buffer [150 mM NaCl, 1% NP40, 10% glycerol, 50 mM Tris HCl (pH 7.5)]. A cocktail of antiproteases EDTA free (Roche) and 10 µM MG132 were also added to prevent protein degradation. The mixtures were incubated at 4 °C with gentle shaking for 1 h. The immunocomplex was captured by adding 50 µl of anti-GFP microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec) and incubated at 4 °C for 30 min. Magnetically-labeled proteins were retained on a micro column placed in the magnetic field of a μMACS Separator. Columns were washed 3 times at 4 °C with lysis buffer. Proteins immunoprecipitated were directly eluted and solubilized with 50 µl of elution buffer prior to 10% SDS-PAGE and transfer onto nitrocellulose. Detection was performed using in-house made GFP antibodies provided by the “Institut de Biologie Moléculaire des Plantes” (IBMP-CNRS, Strasbourg, France) and anti-RFP antibodies (Living Colors ® DsRed Polyclonal Antibody, Clontech). The protein/antibody complex was detected by chemiluminescence (Lumi-LightPLUS kit, Roche) after addition of a goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP conjugate (Invitrogen) using a G:box camera (Syngene). N. benthamiana was infiltrated with GFP:CIPK7 or CIPK7:GFP in the presence of the P19 protein. Images were acquired 48 h after infiltration using a laser scanning confocal microscope (Zeiss) with software package LSM510 (version 2.8), equipped with a 63× water-corrected objective in multitrack mode. eGFP was excited with the 488 nm line of an Argon laser and detected via a 505–530 nm band emission pass filter. Total RNA was isolated from young leaves collected from mock-inoculated and virus-infected A. thaliana using an RNeasy Plant mini kit (Qiagen) and following the manufacturer's instructions. On-column DNase treatment using RNase-free DNase set (Qiagen) was performed. Three biological samples were analyzed per treatment and each sample represented a pool of RNA isolated from three plants. The presence of TuYV was tested by RT-PCR before pooling the RNA extracts. Complementary DNA was synthesized from 1 µg total RNA using oligo (dT) primers and SuperScript ® III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. qPCR primers were designed using ProbeFinder 2.45 (Roche Applied Sciences) ( CITATION ). Specificity of PCR primers was assessed by melting curve analysis of PCR products. PCR was performed using the Bio-Rad CFX96 Touch ™ Real-Time PCR Detection System and SsoFast ™ EvaGreen ® Supermix (Bio-Rad). Ten microliters of PCR reaction contained 12.5 ng cDNA, 400 nM primers and 5 µl SsoFast EvaGreen supermix. Average amplification efficiency was determined by LinRegPCR. Relative expression levels were normalized to At4g26410 ( CITATION ), whose cycle threshold ( C T ) value was subtracted from the C T value of AtCIPK7 , yielding a Δ C T value. The relative expression levels of AtCIPK7 were calculated using the ΔΔ C T method. The qPCR cycles were set up as follows: 95 °C for 30 s followed by 40 cycles at the following conditions: 95 °C for 5 s, 61 °C for 5 s and 77 °C for 5 s; melt curve analysis was performed at 55 °C to 95 °C in 0.5 °C increments for 5 s. The A. thaliana T-DNA insertion mutant cipk7 (SALK_124117) in Col-0 background was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) ( CITATION ). Insertion of the T-DNA sequence into the CIPK7 sequence of the cipk7 mutant was controlled by PCR genotyping using gene-specific primers and left border primers of the T-DNA insertion (LBb1) ( CITATION ). The absence of expression of AtCIPK7-mRNA in cipk7 mutant was controlled by RT-PCR on total RNA extracts (RNeasy Plant mini kit, Qiagen), and RNA integrity was confirmed by RT-PCR amplification of actin mRNA. All primers are described in CITATION .
