!~ABS~! Plant cell walls (CWs) contain a large proportion of polysaccharides (90–95% of CW mass) and proteins (5–10%) that play major roles in CW plasticity during development and in response to environmental cues. Here, we present CW proteomics data of Arabidopsis thaliana roots. Plants were cultivated in hydroponic conditions. CW protein (CWP) extracts were prepared and analyzed in two different ways in order to enlarge the coverage of the root CW proteome: proteins were analyzed either directly or following an affinity chromatography on a combinatorial peptide ligand library (CPLL) to reduce the concentration dynamic range. Proteins were identified by LC‐MS/MS and bioinformatics. Altogether, 424 proteins having predicted signal peptides have been identified (CWPs). CPLL permitted to identify low‐abundant CWPs never described before, thus enlarging the coverage of the root CW proteome. The number of oxidoreductases is particularly high and includes a large collection of class III peroxidases (CIII Prxs; 38 out of the 73 A. thaliana CIII Prxs). For the first time, hydroxyproline residues were localized at conserved positions in CIII Prx amino acid sequences. 
!~RES~! CWs of roots grown in hydroponic conditions have been purified. Proteins have been extracted with two different buffers containing either CaCl2 0.2 M or LiCl 2 M. Both protein extracts have been combined. The experiment has been repeated thrice. These proteins have been analyzed in two different ways: (i) the three biological repeats have been directly analyzed by LC‐MS/MS (untreated extract); (ii) or the proteins of the three biological repeats have been pooled and separated using the CPLL technology to decrease the dynamic range of concentration within the sample (CPLL extract). All the protein samples have been separated by 1DE using about 40 μg of proteins per lane to check the quality of the proteins.  The comparison of the 1DE profiles of proteins extracted from the three batches of roots showed no protein degradation and a good reproducibility of the experiment (Fig. 1A). The three protein samples exhibited the same protein bands after staining with Coomassie blue. Range of molecular masses was from 95 to 15 kDa as usually observed for CWP extracts CITATION, CITATION. These three protein extracts were combined to reach a total amount of 1 mg of proteins and obtain enough material to load on the ProteoMiner™ column in saturating conditions (20x). After loading (lane U in Fig. 1B), the column was washed in order to remove the most abundant proteins that were supposed to saturate their ligands present on the beads (lane FT in Fig. 1B). The proteins retained by the column were eluted (lane E in Fig. 1B). As expected, the same pattern was observed in lane U (Fig. 1B) and in lanes 1–3 (Fig. 1A). These bands corresponded to the most abundant proteins of the extract. The pattern of lane FT was the same, showing that a great part of the most abundant proteins of the extract has not been retained by the ProteoMiner™ beads. Finally, lane E showing the proteins eluted from the column (Fig. 1B) displayed a different pattern with bands of higher intensity than in lane U and the disappearance of some of the major protein bands of lane U, in accordance with an equalization of the concentrations of proteins in our sample.  [[FIGURE]] The three untreated protein extracts and the CPLL extract were separated into three fractions by a short 1DE run. These samples were analyzed by LC‐MS/MS and proteins were identified by bioinformatics (Supporting Information Tables 1 and 2). Altogether, 516 and 1458 proteins have been identified in the untreated protein extract and in the CPLL samples, respectively, (Table 1). As expected, the number of proteins identified in the CPLL sample was much higher (2.8‐fold) than that obtained in the untreated protein extract. Altogether, 1534 proteins were identified, including 440 proteins identified with the two strategies and 1018 proteins only identified with the CPLL strategy. The average number of peptides per identified protein (between six and ten) was the same using both strategies (Supporting Information Fig. 2A). However, the reduction of the concentration dynamic range in the CPLL sample was illustrated by (i) the decrease of the percentage of proteins identified with only two specific peptides, (ii) the increase of the percentage of proteins identified with more than ten specific peptides, and (iii) the decrease of the percentage of proteins identified with more than 70 specific peptides (Supporting Information Fig. 2A).  A bioinformatic analysis of the identified proteins was performed using the ProtAnnDB tool CITATION in order to predict their subcellular localization (Supporting Information Tables 3A and B). In the untreated protein extracts, the proportion of proteins predicted to be secreted was of 52% whereas it was of only 26% in the CPLL sample (Table 1). The higher proportion of identified proteins predicted to be intracellular in this sample could be related to the fact that such proteins are usually present in minor amounts in protein extracts from purified CWs. Thus, the CPLL technology allowed their identification with lower numbers of specific peptides as shown in Supporting Information Fig. 2B and nearly 80% of the proteins identified with two to five specific peptides were predicted to be intracellular.  Altogether, 270 and 386 proteins predicted to be secreted were identified by the two methods, without and with CPLL chromatography, respectively. They corresponded to 424 different proteins: 232 proteins were identified with both methods, 38 proteins only in the untreated protein extract, and 154 only in the CPLL sample. Among the 38 proteins only identified in the untreated extract, 80% were identified with less than five specific peptides, suggesting that they were not abundant proteins.  In the following, only the 424 proteins predicted to be secreted will be called CWPs. The others will be considered as intracellular contaminants in the absence of experimental evidence of their presence in CWs. Among these proteins, 15 were found in a previous root CW proteome of 18‐day‐old seedlings CITATION. On the contrary, 21 proteins previously identified were not present in this new proteome. All the MS experimental data concerning CWPs have been made available online in the WallProtDB database (http://www.polebio.lrsv.ups‐tlse.fr/WallProtDB/), which is dedicated to plant CW proteomics. It contains only proteins identified in CW extracts, in apoplast, or in culture medium and having a predicted signal peptide CITATION.  The functional annotation of proteins was done using the ProtAnnDB tool CITATION as well as literature data. Using functional domains as defined in the PROSITE CITATION, Pfam CITATION, and InterproScan CITATION databases, proteins were distributed in nine functional classes (Fig. 2 and Supporting Information Tables 3 and 4): proteins acting on polysaccharides, oxidoreductases, proteases, proteins possibly related to lipid metabolism, proteins with interaction domains (with proteins or polysaccharides), proteins possibly involved in signaling, structural proteins, miscellaneous proteins, and proteins of unknown function. Proteins acting on polysaccharides (26.4%), oxidoreductases (17.1%), proteases (15.4%), and miscellaneous proteins (14.5%) represented the major classes of root CWPs. Proteins with interaction domains (7.1%) and proteins of unknown function (7.8%) were less represented.  [[FIGURE]] In the oxidoreductase functional class (Supporting Information Table 4, Fig. 2B), 38 CIII Prxs represented more than half of the 72 identified proteins and of the 73 CIII Prxs predicted in the A. thaliana genome. They are also among the most abundant proteins of the root proteome with eight of them among those identified with more than 30 specific peptides (Supporting Information Table 1). Among other oxidoreductases, there were multicopper oxidases (nine SKU5/SKS proteins), berberine bridge oxidoreductases (eight), blue copper binding proteins (five), and laccases (three). Among the proteins acting on polysaccharides, there were GHs of the GH1 (ten proteins), GH17 (14), GH19 (seven), GH28 (eight) families, carbohydrate esterases (CEs) of the CE8 and CE13 families, polysaccharide lyases, and expansins (11). Among proteins related to lipid metabolism, there were 14 glyaspserleu (GDSL) lipases. PME inhibitors were well represented among proteins with interaction domains (six proteins). An unusually high number of receptor kinases (13) could be identified with peptides belonging to their extracellular domain (leucine‐rich repeat or lectin domains). These proteins were not extracellular proteins, but rather transmembrane domain proteins. They have been conserved in this CW proteome because their identification might be of interest for studying signaling pathways involving CW components. The miscellaneous category comprises many proteins of interest for the specific metabolism of roots: defense proteins such as thaumatins (five proteins), ribonucleases (four), and pathogenesis‐related proteins (PR‐proteins (seven); proteins possibly involved in phosphate metabolism such as phosphate‐induced proteins 1 (four proteins), acid phosphatases (two proteins), and purple acid phosphatases (PAPs, ten proteins). Seven dirigent proteins have also been identified. Finally, a low proportion of proteins of unknown function have been identified among which DUF642 (seven), DUF538 (four), and MATH domain (four) proteins.  Among the 424 CWPs identified in this study, 232 were already identified in one of the A. thaliana CW proteome (WallProtDB data). It means that the root CW proteome brought 192 new CWPs, thus increasing the size of the known CW proteome of A. thaliana to 687 CWPs. The root CW proteome was then compared to previously studied A. thaliana CW proteomes (WallProtDB data) and with Brassica oleracea xylem sap proteome (Fig. 3 and Supporting Information Table 4). It had the highest number of common proteins (134) with the CW proteome of etiolated hypocotyls. It shared 98 proteins with the cell suspension cultures proteomes and 75 with the B. oleracea xylem sap proteome. Sixteen CWPs are common to all four materials. The numbers of proteins shared with the leaf and the stem CW proteomes were lower (58). Finally, the A. thaliana root CW proteome shared some features with the known O. sativa root CW proteome CITATION. Among 18 CWPs, five were CIII Prxs and three were GH17.  [[FIGURE]] We have observed the occurrence of Hyp residues in peptides belonging to a few protein families, such as CIII Prxs, germins, and PMEs (Supporting Information Table 1, sheet “spectra”). This type of PTM has not yet been described for such proteins. However, we have focused our attention on CIII Prxs because of their high abundance in the root proteome resulting in a high amount of MS data. Following the identification of mass increment of 15.99 Da corresponding to an oxidation on different tryptic peptides of several CIII Prxs (Supporting Information Table 1), MS/MS fragmentation permitted to confirm that they were located onto Pro residues, giving rise to Hyp (for examples, see Supporting Information Fig. 3). It should be noted that only the cases in which b and/or y fragments permitted to locate unambiguously the observed oxidation onto Pro residues were retained. Manual check of MS/MS data has led to the elimination of a few cases in which it was not possible to discriminate between Pro and Met oxidation.  Hyp residues were located at several conserved positions, defining specific motifs for Pro hydroxylation (Supporting Information Table 5). In particular, three positions conserved between 90% of the A. thaliana CIII Prx amino acid sequences CITATION were affected by this PTM: Cys‐Pro (amino‐acids 14–15, motif 1), Gly‐Pro (124–125, motif 2), and Leu‐Pro‐X‐Pro (149–152, motif 3; Fig. 4A, Supporting Information Table 5). Additional Hyp have been observed in less conserved sequences (Supporting Information Table 5). Another puzzling feature was that a variable percentage of Hyp residues has been found at each of the observed positions (from 2.5 to 100%). Besides, some Pro residues have never been found to be hydroxylated. Similar results were obtained with the CPLL extract (data not shown). Since equalization of the sample may have modified the proportion of the different protein isoforms including those carrying Hyp residues, the MS/MS data have not been analyzed in detail.  [[FIGURE]] Since the observation of Hyp residues in CIII Prx sequences was not previously described, we wanted to localize the corresponding Pro residues on the available 3D‐structures of CIII Prxs. Four such structures have been determined by X‐ray crystallography for native CIII Prxs bearing N‐glycans, i.e. from peanut CITATION, royal palm tree CITATION, banyan tree CITATION, and Raphanus sativus (Gil‐Rodriguez et al., unpublished data). We have chosen that of R. sativus because this plant is a Brassicaceae like A. thaliana (PDB code 4A5G, http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/home/home.do). Pro/Hyp residues of motifs 1 and 2 were located at the surface of the protein, on the opposite side of the active site (Fig. 4B). This position suggested a possible occupancy by O‐glycans. On the contrary, Pro/Hyp residues of motif 3 were located within the substrate binding site, at the edge of the groove where the heme is bound (Fig. 4B) CITATION. The other observed Hyp residues in less conserved motifs were located at the surface of the R. sativus CIII Prx (data not shown). It should also be noted that the corresponding Pro residues were located at similar position on the 3D‐structures of the available A. thaliana Prxs, which are nonglycosylated recombinant proteins (data not shown). 
!~MM~! Seeds of A. thaliana Col0 were sterilized and sowed in Petri dishes containing MS medium (Sigma–Aldrich, Lyon, France) supplemented with 2% w/v sucrose and 1.2% w/v agar. They were maintained in the dark at 4°C during 48 h to favor homogeneous germination. They were put for 21 days in a growth chamber with the following day/night conditions: 16 h/8 h—22/20°C and 40% humidity. Then, the plantlets were transferred to Araponics hydroponics systems (http://www.araponics.com; Supporting Information Fig. 1A). Nutritive solutions have been prepared using the Flora series : FloraGro, FloraMicro, FloraBloom (General Hydroponics Europe, Araponics, Liège, Belgium). One milliliter FloraMicro, 1.6 mL FloraGro, and 1.4 mL FloraBloom have been diluted in 2 L of water. The plants were put in the following day/night conditions: 9 h light/15 h dark—22/20°C and 70% humidity. Roots were collected after 18 days of culture and kept frozen at −80°C (Supporting Information Fig. 1B).  Three biological repeats, corresponding to three independent experiments, each performed with the roots of about 12 plants, were done. Typically, 5 g of roots were used for each sample. CWs were prepared as previously described CITATION. Briefly, plant material was ground in a blender in 200 mL of 5 mM acetate buffer pH 4.6, 0.4 M sucrose, 180 μL of protease inhibitor cocktail (Sigma–Aldrich), and 0.5 g of Polyclar (Sigma–Aldrich). CW fragments were recovered as pellets after three successive centrifugations at 1000 g for 15 min in 200 mL of acetate buffer containing 0.4, 0.6, and 1.0 M sucrose, respectively. They were ground in liquid nitrogen prior to lyophilization. About 0.35 g of lyophilized CWs was obtained from 5 g of roots. Proteins were extracted from CWs with 5 mM acetate buffer pH 4.6 (10 mL/g of lyophilized CWs) containing CaCl2 0.2 M or LiCl 2 M and 15 μL/g of lyophilized CWs of protease inhibitor cocktail CITATION. CaCl2 and LiCl protein extracts were combined, desalted on Econo‐Pac 10DG columns (Bio‐Rad, Life Science, Marnes‐la‐Coquette, France) and lyophilized. Protein quantification was performed with the CooAssay Protein Assay kit (Interchim, Montluçon, France) according to a modified Bradford method CITATION. About 0.8 mg of proteins per gram of lyophilized CWs was extracted. To check the quality of the extract, proteins were separated by 1DE and stained with Coomassie blue CITATION.  The samples resulting from the three biological repeats have been pooled to obtain enough material for affinity CPLL chromatography as described CITATION. Proteins have been separated using the ProteoMiner™ protein enrichment kit (Bio‐Rad). ProteoMiner™ beads have been rehydrated in 20 vol of beads of 10% ethanol under shaking during 15 min. They were equilibrated with 10 vol of beads of PBS 10x (1.4 M NaCl, 27 mM KCl, 100 mM Na2HPO4, 20 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.4) for 15 min, and then twice with 10 vol of beads of PBS 1x. After centrifugation, 1 vol of beads of PBS has been added to get a suspension of beads ready for use. About 1 mg of root proteins extracted from CWs in 75 μL of PBS 1x was put in contact with 5 μL of ProteoMiner™ beads, corresponding to a 20x saturation of the resin (capacity of 10 mg/mL). Incubation was performed for 4.5 h at 4°C under gentle shaking. Nonretained proteins were eliminated by a centrifugation at 1000 g for 5 min at 4°C. The beads were washed by incubating for 10 min thrice with 50 μL PBS 1x before elution for 4 min at 95°C with 40 μL of Laemmli buffer (Tris 62.5 mM, glycerol 10%, β‐mercaptoethanol 5%, SDS 2%, bromophenol blue 0,01%) CITATION.  Prior to MS analysis, 40 μg of proteins were separated by a short‐run 1DE (about 5 mm). Each sample was cut into three pieces of about 1.7 mm thickness. The gel pieces were collected in 96‐well microplates and in‐gel digestion was performed with the Progest Protein Digestion Station system (Digilab, Proteomic Solutions, Saint‐Marcel, France). Gel pieces were washed twice by successive separate baths of 10% acetic acid, 40% ethanol, and ACN followed by two successive separate baths of 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate and ACN. Proteins were reduced for 30 min with 10 mM dithiothreitol, 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate at 56°C and alkylated in the dark with 55 mM iodoacetamide, 25 mM ammonium bicarbonate for 45 min at room temperature. The gel pieces were washed by successive separate baths of 0.1 M ammonium bicarbonate and ACN. Digestion was subsequently performed for 6 h at 37°C with 125 ng of modified trypsin (Promega, Charbonnières, France) dissolved in 20% methanol, 20 mM ammonium bicarbonate. The peptides were extracted successively with 2% TFA and 50% ACN and then with ACN. Peptide extracts were dried in a vacuum centrifuge and suspended in 30 μL of 0.05% TFA, 0.05% formic acid, and 2% ACN.  Tryptic digestion was performed as described CITATION. Then, the samples were put in 30 μL of buffer (2% ACN, 0.1% formic acid). Online LC was performed on a NanoLC Ultra system (Eksigent, Life Sciences Holdings France SAS, Les Ulis, France). A 4 μL sample was loaded at 7.5 μL/min on a precolumn cartridge (stationary phase: C18, particles of 5 μm; column: 100 μm id, 2 cm length; NanoSeparations, Nieuwkoop, the Netherlands) and desalted with 0.1% formic acid in water. After 3 min, the precolumn cartridge was connected to the separating C18 column (stationary phase BIOSPHERE C18, particles of 3 μm; column 75 μm id, 150 mm length; NanoSeparations). Buffers were 0.1% formic acid in water (solvent A) and 0.1% formic acid in ACN (solvent B). Peptide separation was achieved using a linear gradient from 5 to 30% B for 28 min at 300 nL/min. Including the regeneration step at 100% B and the equilibration step at 100% A, one run took 45 min. Eluted peptides were analyzed online with a Q‐Exactive mass spectrometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Villebon‐sur‐Yvette, France) using a nanoelectrospray interface (noncoated capillary probe, 10‐μm tip id; 12 cm length; New Objective, Inc., Woburn, MA, USA). Peptide ions were analyzed using Xcalibur 2.3 with the following data‐dependent acquisition steps: (i) full MS scan (m/z ratio 400–1400, centroid mode, 70 000 resolution, AGC target set to 3.106) and (ii) MS/MS (precursor charge state: 2–4, centroid mode, 17 500 resolution). Step 2 was repeated for the eight major ions detected in step 1. Dynamic exclusion was set to 40 s. Xcalibur raw data files were transformed to mzXML open source format using ProteoWizard software version 3.0. The X!Tandem software was used for protein identification CITATION and the X!Tandem Pipeline (release 2013.09.01.1, http://www.thegpm.org/) for MS data processing. All the parameters used for peptide and protein identification are listed in Supporting Information Tables 1 and 2 (sheets “parameters”). Trypsin digestion was declared with one possible miscleavage. Carboxyamidomethylation of Cys residues was set to fixed modification. Oxidation of Met or Pro residues, N‐ter acetylation, N‐ter deamidation of Glu residues, and loss of H2O on N‐ter Glu residues were set to possible modifications. Trypsin digestion was declared with one possible miscleavage. Precursor mass precision was set to 10 ppm and fragment mass tolerance was set to 0.02 Da. The following filters were used: log (e‐value) < −5 for proteins and e‐value < 0.01 for peptides. FDR was estimated at 0.04% for peptides and 0% for proteins. Only proteins identified with at least two different specific peptides in the same sample and found in at least two biological repeats were validated except in the case of the CPLL extract where the three biological repeats have been combined prior to MS analysis. In the case of peptides carrying Hyp residues, only the data of the untreated protein extracts have been taken into account (Supporting Information Table 1). All the corresponding MS/MS fragmentation spectra have been manually checked.  Identified proteins were analyzed de novo with different bioinformatics software to predict their subcellular localization and their functional domains using the ProtAnnDB pipeline CITATION. To be retained as a CWP, the prediction of a signal peptide for a given protein had to be positive with at least two different bioinformatic programs. In addition, the identified proteins should not carry a predicted endoplasmic retention signal or have more than one transmembrane domain. When the presence of a peptide signal was only predicted by one bioinformatic program, a literature search was performed to find experimental evidence for extracellular localization (see Supporting Information Table 3A). Besides, the signal peptide and/or the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor may be predicted as transmembrane domains. This is manually checked for each protein having more than one predicted transmembrane domain. Finally, although they are not CWPs, putative plasma membrane receptor proteins have been retained since they might be of interest for a better understanding of CW‐signaling.  To allow comparisons between previously published CW proteomes, all of them have been annotated or reannotated in the same way and included in WallProtDB CITATION. The experimental results obtained in this study including the LC‐MS/MS data have been made publicly available in WallProtDB (http://www.polebio.lrsv.ups‐tlse.fr/WallProtDB/). The 3D‐structures of CIII Prxs were downloaded from the PDB site (http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/home/home.do) and visualized using the Discovery Studio Visualizer software (Accelrys, BioVia, San Diego, CA, USA). Seventy‐three sequences of A. thaliana CIII Prxs, available from the PeroxiBase CITATION have been aligned with ClustalW (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/) using default parameters CITATION. The alignment was manually adjusted. From the resulting alignment, a graphical consensus was obtained using the WebLogo 3.4 tool with the relative frequency of each amino as the unit of y‐axis CITATION. 
