!~ABS~! Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) is a worldwide health problem. Overexpression of the DnaJ-like zinc finger domain protein ORANGE (OR) is a novel strategy for the biofortification of pro-vitamin A carotenoids in different staple crops to alleviate VAD. In plants, OR triggers the differentiation from non-pigmented plastids into carotenoid-accumulating plastids. There are different reports on the subcellular localization of this protein in either chloroplasts or the nucleus, both of which were supported by confocal observation and protein-protein interaction results. In this work, we studied the subcellular localization of OR in the cotyledons of germinating seedlings whose plastids were transitioning from non-pigmented proplastids into carotenoid-accumulating etioplasts in the dark, and then into chloroplasts upon illumination. Our Western blot analysis identified two bands of the Arabidopsis OR protein (AtOR) from the chloroplast fraction of the mature leaves (i.e., a 34-kDa form corresponding to the full-length peptide and a 30-kDa form suggesting the removal of the N-terminal chloroplast transit peptide). We found that the full-length AtOR was predominantly localized in the nucleus in etiolated cotyledons, although its abundance decreased upon illumination. Our bioinformatics analysis indicated a nuclear localization signal (NLS) after the N-terminal chloroplast transit peptide. When we substituted different N-terminal regions of AtOR with the green fluorescent protein, our confocal observations demonstrated that this NLS was sufficient to target AtOR to the nucleus. Our results demonstrate that AtOR is a dual-targeted protein that mainly localizes in the nucleus in etiolated cotyledons.
!~RES~! Because Bai et al. reported a clear fluorescent signal of OR-GFP in the transgenic sweet potato callus where no chloroplasts existed, and OR orthologs were frequently demonstrated to function in transgenic calli (Li et al. CITATION; Kim et al. CITATION; Bai et al. CITATION). it is possible that OR localizes and functions in the nucleus when chloroplasts are not well developed. In addition to confocal observations, we also raised anti-OR antiserum and performed Western blotting analysis in this work to confirm our postulation. Our sequence comparison showed that OR orthologs in all land plants share high sequence identity and possess the characteristic C-terminal DnaJ-like zinc finger domain (composed of four tandemly arranged repeats of the CxxCxGxG motif), together with two transmembrane domains (Supplementary Fig. 1). A putative N-terminal chloroplast transit peptide (cTP) region was found in all orthologs, except those from Physcomitrella patens and Selaginella moellendorffii, probably because the sequences of these two orthologs were incomplete (Supplementary Fig. 1). For proteins that are imported into chloroplasts through the ΔpH-dependent pathway, their N-terminal sequences usually contain a critical twin-arginine (RR) motif, and the cTP regions prior to this RR motif are cleaved after importing (Williams et al. CITATION; Robinson and Bolhuis CITATION). From the sequence of AtOR, we found three RR pairs, and our online analysis suggested that the first pair (R34R35) was most likely to be such a motif. The relative molecular weight (M r) of the full-length AtOR, calculated from its deduced amino acid sequence, is 33.8 kDa. When its cTP is removed, the size of AtOR is 30.0 kDa. Using A. thaliana wild-type (WT) seedlings, our Western blotting analysis with a specific antiserum against OR successfully identified two bands, at approximately 34 and 30 kDa from the total protein extract of mature leaves (Fig. 1a). The 34-kDa band was also found to be dominant in developing cotyledons before (etiolated) and after (de-etiolated) illumination, whereas the 30-kDa band was barely detectable in etiolated cotyledons and was weakly detected in de-etiolated cotyledons (Fig. 1a). We further isolated chloroplast and nuclear fractions from mature leaves. Both the 34- and 30-kDa bands of AtOR were found in the chloroplast, not the nuclear, fraction on our Western blots, suggesting that AtOR is a chloroplast protein in mature leaves (Fig. 1b). However, in etiolated cotyledons, our anti-OR antiserum clearly identified the full length (34-kDa) AtOR in the nuclear preparation (Fig. 1c). We then illuminated the seedlings and purified the nuclei from cotyledons at different time point. As shown in Fig. 1d, the abundance of the nucleus-localized AtOR gradually decreased upon illumination. When etiolated seedlings were exposed to light for 48 h, only approximately 19.3 % of the original level of AtOR remained in the nucleus. Our observation of the 35S:AtOr-GFP and 35S:BoOr-GFP transgenic plants also supported the nuclear localization of OR. Although AtOR was not detected in the nuclear preparation of mature leaves on our Western blots, we occasionally observed the OR-GFP signal in the nucleus, as indicated by DAPI staining, of protoplasts prepared from the leaves of the homozygous transgenic lines of both constructs (Fig. 1e). This infers that OR could also localizes to the nucleus in mature leaves. All these results encouraged us to search the sequence of OR for possible targeting motifs. Although most online programs did not provide other suggestions on subcellular localization of AtOR, the NUCDISC subprogram of the PSORT package found a short region (R90-I106) between cTP and the first transmembrane domain as a putative nuclear localization signal (NLS) (Supplementary Fig. 1). The sequence of this NLS region is also highly conserved among all OR orthologs (Supplementary Fig. 1). Therefore, we transformed A. thaliana WT plants with 35S:GFP-ΔcTP and 35S:GFP-ΔNTD constructs for the overexpression of different truncations of AtOR with GFP fused to their N-termini. For GFP-ΔcTP and GFP-ΔNTD fusion proteins, the N-terminal region of AtOR before and after the NLS, respectively, was substituted with GFP (Fig. 1f). Our confocal observation results showed that GFP-ΔcTP localized in the nucleus but GFP-ΔNTD fusion protein was in cytosol (Fig. 1g). This indicated that the NLS is responsible for the nuclear localization of AtOR, and also explained why the overexpressed OR-GFP fusion protein was targeted to chloroplasts and the nucleus, not elsewhere, in our confocal observation. [[FIGURE]]  The DnaJ-like zinc finger domain protein OR is unique for its capability of inducing the transition from non-pigmented plastids into carotenoid-accumulating ones, such as etioplasts and chromoplasts. This transition is a tightly coordinated developmental process that requires a concerted regulation of both metabolic and structural scenarios. Although OR was recently demonstrated to interact with PSY and this interaction favors carotenoid biosynthesis (Zhou et al. CITATION). PSY is more likely to function after the transition has been triggered and OR has been imported into chloroplasts. OR might interact with some other elements, such as transcription factors, to regulate plastid development and carotenoid accumulation at the transcriptional level, for which its nuclear localization is a prerequisite. Our previous report on the protein-protein interaction between OR and eRF1-2 in the nucleus supports this presumption (Zhou et al. CITATION). Although this interaction is only found to regulate cell elongation and petiole growth, it suggests that OR might have different functions by interacting with different proteins during development. In our work, we confirmed that OR predominantly localizes in the nucleus in etiolated cotyledons. A search for its protein-protein partner at this developmental stage should shed light on a better understanding of etioplast biogenesis.
!~MM~!  A. thaliana lines used in this study are of the Columbia (Col-0) ecotype background. The seeds were surface sterilized, stratified at 4 °C for 3 days in the dark, and then germinated on plates with 1/2 Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium containing 1 % sucrose and 1.5 % agar, at 22 °C for 4 days in the dark. Seedlings were then grown under a 14-h-light/10-h-dark cycle with a light intensity of 100 μmol m−2 s−1 at 22 °C. Total RNA was isolated from A. thaliana seedlings and reverse transcribed using a PrimeScript First Strand complementary DNA (cDNA) Synthesis Kit (Takara, Kyoto, Japan). From this cDNA pool, the full-length open reading frame (ORF) of the A. thaliana Or gene (AtOr, GenBank accession no. AY149953.1) was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using the primer pair AtOr-NcoI-HF and AtOr-SpeI-ER (all primers and their corresponding sequences are listed in Supplementary Table 1). For all PCR amplifications, a program of 94 °C for 2 min, followed by 35 cycles of 94 °C for 30 s, 60 °C for 30 s, and 72 °C for 1 min, with an additional extension at 72 °C for 2 min, was adopted. High-fidelity PrimeStar DNA polymerase (Takara) was used according to the manufacturer’s instruction throughout this study. After electrophoresis, the amplicon was purified from the gel using a SanPrep Column DNA Gel Extraction Kit (Sangon, Shanghai, China), and then digested with NcoI and SpeI (Takara). The fragment was purified using a SanPrep Column PCR Product Purification Kit (Sangon) and then ligated to pCAMBIA1302 (CAMBIA, Canberra, Australia) that was same digested and purified, to transcriptionally fuse AtOr to the 5′-end of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene. This generated the 35S:AtOr-GFP construct for the overexpression of an AtOR-GFP fusion protein in A. thaliana. An A. thaliana transgenic line overexpressing a fusion protein of the cauliflower OR ortholog (BoOR) and GFP (35S:BoOr-GFP) was obtained from Dr. Li Li (Robert W. Holley Center for Agriculture and Health, USDA-ARS). We also used two primer pairs AtOr-NheI-dCF/AtOR-PmlI-ER and AtOr-NheI-dNF/AtOr-PmlI-ER to amplify different truncated fragments of AtOr. Each amplicon was electrophoresed, extracted from the gel, digested with NheI and PmlI, and purified as mentioned above. The fragment was ligated to pCAMBIA1302 that was same digested and purified. This generated the constructs 35S:GFP-ΔcTP and 35S:GFP-ΔNTD for the expression of AtOR with its first 78 (M1-M78) and 126 (M1-L126) amino acid residues from the N-terminus substituted with GFP, respectively. Each of the constructs was transferred into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation (Lu et al. CITATION) and Arabidopsis plants were transformed using the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). At least three independent homozygous transgenic lines were studied for each construct. We searched GenBank for OR orthologs in representative species, including A. thaliana (AtOR) and Brassica oleracea var. botrytis (BoOR, GenBank accession No. DQ482456.1) for dicots, Zea mays (ZmOR, BT065140.1), Oryza sativa (OsOR, NM_001054128.1), and Brachypodium distachyon (BdOR, XM_003569948.2) for monocots, Picea glauca (PgOR, BT110449.1) for gymnosperms, Selaginella moellendorffii (SmOR, XM_002986718.1) for lycophytes, and Physcomitrella patens (PpOR, XM_001783827.1) for mosses. The sequences were aligned using the ClustalX program and manually edited. Programs from the PSORT Website (http://www.psort.org and http://psort.hgc.jp/) were used to predict OR subcellular localization and motifs (Nakai and Horton CITATION). Protoplasts were isolated from the mature leaves of all transgenic plants according to Kim et al. (CITATION) and then either observed directly or stained with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) (Zhou et al. CITATION). The DAPI and GFP signals were excited at 405 and 488 nm and detected at 461 and 510 nm, respectively, using a FLUOVIEW FV1000 Laser Confocal Microscopy System (Olympus, Tokyo, Japan). The coding region corresponding to the zinc finger domain of AtOR (N221-D307) was cloned into pET32 (EMD Millipore, Darmstadt, Germany) and prokaryotically expressed in Rosetta2(DE3) cells (EMD Millipore). The expressed protein was purified by affinity chromatography using a Ni-NTA superflow column (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany) and used to immunize mice by GenScript (Nanjing, China) to raise an antiserum against OR. The polyclonal antiserum was purified from the immunoblots as previously described (Lu et al. CITATION). Total protein was extracted by homogenizing 100 mg of plant material in 300 μl of 2 × sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) loading buffer (Green and Sambrook CITATION) containing 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT), 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), and 1× Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO). After centrifugation at 10,000×g for 10 min at 4 °C, the supernatant was used for analysis. Chloroplasts were isolated from mature leaves according to Aronsson and Jarvis (CITATION) and re-suspended in SDS-PAGE loading buffer. Purification of the nuclear preparations from mature leaves and cotyledons was conducted according to Zheng et al. (CITATION). In brief, 1.5 g of plant material was homogenized in 3 ml ice-cold Honda buffer (2.5 % Ficoll 400, 5 % dextran T40, 0.4 M sucrose, 25 mM Tris–HCl, pH 7.5, 10 mM MgCl2, 1 mM DTT, 1 mM PMSF and 1× Protease Inhibitor Cocktail) and then filtered through four layers of miracloth. After adding Triton X-100 to a final concentration of 0.5 %, the filtrate was left on ice for 15 min and then centrifuged at 1500×g for 5 min. The pellet was re-suspended in 1 ml Honda buffer with 0.1 % Triton X-100 and then centrifuged again at 1500×g for 5 min. The pellet was re-suspended in 1 ml Honda buffer and centrifuged at 100×g for 1 min. The supernatant was centrifuged at 2000×g for 5 min. The pellet was re-suspended in 300 μl of buffer G (1.7 M sucrose, 10 mM Tris–HCl, pH 8.0, 0.15 % Triton X-100, 2 mM MgCl2, 5 mM DTT and 1× Protease Inhibitor Cocktail) and layered carefully to the top of 300 μl buffer G in a new tube. The preparation was centrifuged at 16,000×g for 1 h. The pelleted nuclei were re-suspended in SDS-PAGE loading buffer. For Western blot analysis, protein samples were denatured and separated by SDS-PAGE and semi-dry transferred to a Protran BA 83 nitrocellulose membrane (GE Healthcare, Pittsburgh, PA, USA). The polyclonal antiserum against OR described above and commercial antibodies against Histone H3, LHCB2, and TOC75 (as controls) from Agrisera (Vännäs, Sweden) were used. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated secondary antibodies against rabbit or mouse IgG were from Promega (Madison, WI, USA). Common protocols (Green and Sambrook CITATION) and the manufacturers’ manuals for SDS-PAGE, semi-dry blotting and Western detection with a chemiluminescent substrate (Immobilon Western HRP substrate, EMD Millipore) were followed. The ImageQuant software (GE Healthcare) was used for the quantification of signal intensity on the Western blots. Signals were quantified from three independent experiments.
