!~ABS~! Calnexin (CNX) is a highly conserved endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone protein. Both calnexin and the homologous ER-lumenal protein, calreticulin, bind calcium ions and participate in protein folding. There are two calnexins in Arabidopsis thaliana, CNX1 and CNX2. GUS expression demonstrated that these are expressed in most Arabidopsis tissues throughout development. Calnexin transfer DNA (T-DNA) mutant lines exhibited increased transcript abundances of a number of other ER chaperones, including calreticulins, suggesting a degree of redundancy. CNX1 and CNX2 localised to the ER membrane including that within plasmodesmata, the intercellular channels connecting plant cells. This is comparable with the previous localisations of calreticulin in the ER lumen and at plasmodesmata. However, from green fluorescent protein (GFP) diffusion studies in single and double T-DNA insertion mutant lines, as well as overexpression lines, we found no evidence that CNX1 or CNX2 play a role in intercellular transport through plasmodesmata. In addition, calnexin T-DNA mutant lines showed no change in transcript abundance of a number of plasmodesmata-related proteins. CNX1 and CNX2 do not appear to have a specific localisation or function at plasmodesmata—rather the association of calnexin with the ER is simply maintained as the ER passes through plasmodesmata.
!~RES~! In order to determine where CNX1 and CNX2 are expressed during development, Arabidopsis plants were engineered to express GUS under the control of the CNX1 or CNX2 promoters. Five independent lines were examined for each promoter and representative images are presented in Fig. 1. The expression patterns of both pCNX1-GUS and pCNX2-GUS lines were similar throughout development. GUS was expressed in imbibed and germinating seeds and was in the cotyledons and roots of young seedlings. In older, plate-grown seedlings and mature plants, GUS expression was in all tissues, including roots, apical meristems, cotyledons, rosette leaves and vascular tissue. Since the rosette leaves of these plate-grown plants were stunted, fully expanded leaves of 4-week-old soil-grown plants were also examined. The leaves were cut into segments to aid stain penetration. GUS expression was observed in these leaves, particularly in the lateral veins but not the midrib. In floral tissues, pCNX1-GUS expression was in sepals, stigmas, the upper parts of stamens and styles, and in pollen grains. In contrast, pCNX2-GUS expression was in stigmas and the upper parts of styles and was not in pollen. These results indicate that CNX1 and CNX2 are expressed in most plant tissues throughout development, although some differences do exist in reproductive tissues. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate the role of CNX1 and CNX2 in Arabidopsis, two T-DNA insertion mutants were examined, SALK_083600C (cnx1) and SALK_044381C (cnx2), and these were crossed to produce a cnx1 cnx2 double mutant. There were no significant differences between the morphologies of the single or double mutants and wild-type plants (Fig. S1a). Each line grew at a similar rate (Fig. S1b). The number of T-DNA insertions was determined for the cnx1 and cnx2 mutants. While both insertions in the SALK_083600C line were in exons of the CNX1 gene (Fig. S2a), there were two insertions in the SALK_044381C line, one in an exon of the CNX2 gene, and another in the exon of the adjacent TUDOR-SN PROTEIN 1 gene (TSN1) (Fig. S2b). The effects of this secondary insertion in TSN1 did not significantly affect our characterisations of CNX2 (see below). The expression of CNX1 and CNX2 in seedlings of the calnexin T-DNA insertion mutants was examined using qRT-PCR (Fig. 2a). CNX1 and CNX2 overexpression lines, where the 35S promoter drove calnexin cDNA expression, were also included. CNX1 transcript was not detected in the cnx1 and cnx1 cnx2 mutants, and CNX2 transcript was not detected in the cnx2 and cnx1 cnx2 mutants (Fig. 2a). CNX2 transcript was significantly elevated in cnx1 mutants. Both CNX1 and CNX2 transcripts were significantly elevated in CNX1 and CNX2 overexpression lines, respectively. TSN1 transcript was absent from the cnx2 mutant and the cnx1 cnx2 double mutant as well as from a tsn1 mutant, which was included as a control (Fig. S2c). In comparison, transcripts of a second Arabidopsis TSN gene, TSN2, did not differ significantly from wild-type levels (Fig. S2c). [[FIGURE]]  Western blots showed that total CNX protein levels were reduced in seedlings of the cnx1, cnx2, and cnx1cnx2 mutants and were elevated in the CNX1 and CNX2 overexpression lines (Fig. 2b, c). The calnexin antibody could not distinguish between CNX1 and CNX2 and the calnexin band represents their levels combined. The antibody also recognised calreticulin and the calreticulin band represents the combined levels of CRT1a, CRT1b and CRT3. Generally, the pattern of calnexin protein levels (Fig. 2c) correlated with the pattern of CNX1 and CNX2 transcripts levels (Fig. 2a). CRT protein levels in the mutant plants and overexpression lines were similar to those of wild type (Fig. 2b, c). The transcript abundances of genes associated with the endoplasmic reticulum were examined in calnexin T-DNA insertion mutants (Fig. 3). These included the three calreticulin genes, CRT1a, CRT1b and CRT3, the genes of ER-localised chaperones, binding protein 1 (BIP1; At5g28540), shepherd (SHD; At4g24190), ER resident J protein 3B (ERDJ3B; At3g62600), stromal derived factor 2 (SDF2; At2g25110), a constituent of an ER translocation channel Sec61γ (At5g50460) and a putative ER protein with a saposin B domain (saposin B-like (SAPBL), At4g29520). The levels of CRT1a and CRT1b transcript in the calnexin mutants were elevated compared with wild type, while CRT3 transcript abundance was higher only in the cnx2 mutant (Fig. 3). In general, the transcript abundances of the other ER genes, BIP1, SHD, ERDJ3B, SDF2, Sec61γ and SAPBL, were also elevated in the mutants. This was particularly evident in the cnx2 mutant where transcripts of eight of the nine ER-related genes increased significantly (p < 0.05). Thus, in the absence of CNX1 and/or CNX2 in Arabidopsis, there was up-regulation of the transcripts of other ER-related proteins. [[FIGURE]]  To investigate their cellular localisation, CNX1 and CNX2 were tagged with GFP at their C-terminus (Fig. 4a) and expressed using the CaMV 35S promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. CNX1-GFP and CNX2-GFP localised to a network of tubules in the cortical cytoplasm of Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells (Fig. 4b, c), resembling cortical ER. To confirm this ER localisation, both fusion proteins were transiently co-expressed with mCherry targeted to the ER (ER-mCherry) in N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells (Fig. 4d, e). There was strong co-localisation between CNX1-GFP or CNX2-GFP and ER-mCherry at the ER. When the native gene sequences of CNX1 or CNX2 were tagged at the C-terminus with GFP and expressed under the control of the native CNX1 or CNX2 promoters (pcnx1::gCNX1-GFP or pcnx2::gCNX1-GFP) in Arabidopsis (Fig. 4f, g) or N. benthamiana (Fig. 4h, i), they also localised to the ER. Electron microscopy showed that CNX1-GFP and CNX2-GFP localised to the ER membrane in transgenic Arabidopsis leaf cells (Fig. 4j, k). [[FIGURE]]  CNX1-GFP and CNX2-GFP formed fluorescent puncta along the anticlinal walls of Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells which often co-located with sites of aniline blue-induced fluorescence of callose which is located at plasmodesmata (Fig. 5a, b; Movies S1, S2). This suggests that CNX1 and CNX2 are associated with ER in the cortical cytoplasm adjacent to plasmodesmata and/or ER within the plasmodesmata. Similar patterns were seen for CNX1-GFP and CNX2-GFP when expressed from their native promoters (Fig. 5i, j) and also ER-GFP (Fig. 5c; Movie S3). Since confocal imaging used here did not have sufficient resolution to image individual plasmodesmata or distinguish between fluorescence at plasmodesmata and the nearby cortical ER, electron microscopy and immunogold labelling were used to determine if CNX1, CNX2 and ER-GFP did indeed localise to plasmodesmata. CNX1-GFP (Fig. 5d, e) and CNX2-GFP (Fig. 5f) were located at plasmodesmata in transgenic Arabidopsis root tips with the density of immunogold particles at plasmodesmata significantly higher than in the intervening cell walls (Fig. 5h). In contrast, ER-GFP was not at plasmodesmata (Fig. 5g, h). [[FIGURE]]  Since CNX1 and CNX2 appear to remain associated with ER as it traverses the cell wall through plasmodesmata, we asked if they played a role in plasmodesmatal function. To assess whether the permeability of plasmodesmata was affected in the calnexin mutants, individual Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells were transformed transiently to express GFP in the cytoplasm, and the number of cell layers into which the GFP diffused was counted. There was no statistically significant difference in GFP diffusion between wild-type, the cnx1, cnx2 and cnx1 cnx2 mutants, and CNX1 and CNX2 overexpression lines (Fig. 6a). GFP diffusion was also unaffected in the tsn1 mutant (Fig. S2d–f). Another indicator of plasmodesmatal physiology, the amount of callose accumulated at neck regions, can be estimated by measuring the fluorescence intensity of punctate aniline blue fluorescence along cell boundaries (Fig. 6b, c; Levy et al. CITATION; Simpson et al. CITATION). All the lines that varied in their calnexin expression exhibited statistically significantly lower aniline blue fluorescence intensity compared with wild type (p < 0.05; Fig. 6d) suggesting that there was less callose at their plasmodesmata. In the tsn1 mutant, the intensity of aniline blue was unaffected suggesting that the secondary T-DNA insertion in the cnx2 mutant did not significantly impact callose levels (Fig. S2g–i). [[FIGURE]]  The transcript abundances of genes associated with plasmodesmata, namely plasmodesmata callose binding protein 1 (PDCB1; At5g61130), β-1,3-glucanase putative plasmodesmata-associated protein (BGPPAP; At5g42100) and reversibly glycosylated polypeptide 2 (RGP2; At5g15650) were examined in calnexin T-DNA insertion mutants (Fig. 3). There were no statistical significant increases or decreases in the transcript levels of the plasmodesmata-related genes in the mutant plants (p > 0.05).
!~MM~! Sterilised Arabidopsis seeds were germinated in soil or on Murashige and Skoog salts (MSS) plates (1× MSS, 2 % (w/v) sucrose, 1 % (w/v) Bacto agar, pH 5.7; PhytoTechnology Laboratories, Shawnee Mission, KS, USA) and sterilised Nicotiana benthamiana seeds on agar (1.2 %) plates containing Hoagland’s media. Plants were grown at 21 °C/18 °C (Arabidopsis) or 25 °C/20 °C (N. benthamiana) for 16/8 h (day/night). Light intensity was 5500–6500 lux. After 2 weeks, seedlings were transferred to a soil mix and grown in the same conditions. All cloning used PCR amplification of DNA with Pfx50 (Invitrogen) using primers containing attB sites followed by Gateway recombination (Invitrogen) into an entry vector and then into destination vectors. Complementary DNA (cDNA) for CNX1 and CNX2 were PCR amplified with (amplified with CNX1-FWD and CNX1X-REV, CNX2-FWD and CNX2X-REV, respectively; Table S1) or without stop codons (CNX1-FWD and CNX1-REV, CNX2-FWD and CNX2-REV; Table S1). The cDNA without stop codons was recombined into pK7FWG2 (Plant Systems Biology (PSB), Ghent University, Belgium; http://gateway.psb.ugent.be) to generate the binary vectors pKCNX1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) and pKCNX2-GFP, respectively, to create C-terminal GFP fusion constructs. The coding regions of CNX1 and CNX2 with stop codon were recombined into pK7WG2 and pB7WG2 (PSB), respectively, to generate pK35S-CNX1 and pB35S-CNX2 overexpression vectors. Each of these constructs included the 35S promoter to drive expression of the transgene. Fusion of the CNX native promoters and coding regions to GFP was achieved by PCR amplification of genomic sequences of CNX1 and CNX2, from −344 to −425 bases upstream of the start codon, respectively, to before the stop codon (primers pCNX1-FWD and CNX1-REV, pCNX2-FWD and CNX2-REV, respectively; Table S1) and recombination of PCR products into pK7FWGΔ2, a modified pK7FWG2 with the 35S promoter removed, to generate the binary vectors pKpCNX1gCNX1-GFP and pKpCNX2-gCNX2-GFP. The promoter regions of CNX1 and CNX2 were amplified (pCNX1-FWD and pCNX1-REV, pCNX2-FWD and pCNX2-REV, respectively; Table S1) and recombined into pKGWFS7 (PSB) to generate the transcriptional fusion vectors pKpCNX1-GUS and pKpCNX2-GUS. Binary vectors were used to transform Arabidopsis plants (wild-type or cnx T-DNA insertion mutants) with Agrobacterium tumefaciens using the floral dip method (Clough and Bent CITATION). A. tumefaciens was also used to transiently transform 4–5-week-old N. benthamiana by injecting a bacterial suspension into abaxial leaf tissue (Bendahmane et al. CITATION). Leaves were visualised two days after infiltration. T-DNA insertion mutants, SALK_083600C (cnx1) and SALK_044381C (cnx2), were obtained from the ABRC. The mutant for TSN1 (tsn1) and its corresponding wild-type ecotype were kind gifts from Michele Wolfe Bianchi (Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, France). An adapter ligation protocol (O’Malley et al. CITATION) was used to map the insertions in cnx1 and cnx2 lines. The cnx1 and cnx2 mutants used for assays were bulked from third-generation selfed lines. The T-DNA insertions were confirmed at each generation using PCR (SALK_083600C_LP and SALK_083600C_RP, SALK_044381C_LP and SALK_044381C_RP, respectively, with LBb1.3; Table S1). To generate the cnx1 cnx2 mutant line, the cnx1 and cnx2 mutants were crossed. These were then selfed over three generations to generate homozygous lines, and the F4 and F5 generations were bulked and used for assays. Gold microcarriers (1 μm) were incubated with p35S-eGFP plasmid DNA, 1 M CaCl2 and 16 mM spermidine (Sigma), then resuspended in ethanol and loaded onto macrocarriers (Bio-Rad). The abaxial side of mature rosette leaves from soil-grown Arabidopsis plants approximately four weeks old were bombarded at 26–28 inHg vacuum in a PDS-1000/He particle delivery system (Bio-Rad) with 900 psi rupture disks. The identities of bombarded leaves were concealed, and the leaves were randomly selected for visualisation 24 h after bombardment using an Axiophot epifluorescence microscope (Carl Zeiss, Ryde, Australia) equipped with a GFP emission filter set and ×10 objective lens. A series of images of individual transformed cells was captured at sequential focal planes with a DP71 CCD camera (Olympus, Macquarie Park, NSW, Australia) using DPS-BSW software. The images were combined into stacks using ImageJ then were transformed into a 2D image using the Stack Focuser plug-in (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/plugins/stack-focuser.html). The number of cell layers into which GFP had diffused from a transformed cell was counted from the 2D images. There were at least three biological replicates. Data was analysed using IBM SPSS Statistics. The data was not normal so the nonparametric tests of Kruskal–Wallis and Mann–Whitney U were used to analyse it. Mature, soil-grown Arabidopsis rosette leaves were cut into segments approximately 4 mm2, and these were immersed in 25 μg/mL aniline blue fluorochrome (Biosupplies Australia, Parkville, VIC, Australia) in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (26.9 mM NaH2PO4, 73.1 mM Na2HPO4, pH 7.3). Specimens from different plant lines taken from across leaves were randomly selected for imaging with their identities concealed at 30–120 min post-staining using the Axiophot microscope with an ultraviolet filter and a ×40 Acroplan water dipping objective. Cells approximately five rows inside the cut edges were selected for imaging because the stain penetrated into their walls and callose deposits were easily seen. Wounded or dead cells were avoided. Images were captured with the DP71 camera. In ImageJ, fluorescence intensity profiles were created from a manually selected path along cell walls. The intensity profile was analysed, and the brighter peaks (with intensities above the 65th percentile of all measured intensities along the path) were flagged as corresponding to stained pit fields, from which the background wall fluorescence intensity (the intensity at the 65th percentile) was subtracted. These analyses were conducted in at least three biological replicates. Data was log-transformed to remove heterogeneity of variance and analysed using analysis of variance (Systat). There was a significant difference so a Student–Newman–Keuls analysis was used to determine where the difference lay. Cells from the abaxial surface of leaves expressing calnexin-GFP in the presence or absence of mCherry-ER (expressed behind a p35S with dual-enhancer elements, Nelson et al. CITATION) were imaged using a LSM 5 Pascal confocal laser scanning microscope (Carl Zeiss) with a ×40 water dipping objective. GFP was excited using a 488-nm argon laser line and collected through a 505–530-nm emission filter and mCherry with a 543-nm helium-neon laser and 560-nm long-pass filter. Sequential scans were collected when two of the fluorescent proteins were co-expressed, to minimise bleedthrough. Co-localisation of calnexin-GFP and aniline blue-stained callose at plasmodesmata was imaged using a Nikon Eclipse TE2000-E microscope (Nikon Instruments, Melville, NY, USA), equipped with a C1 LIMO confocal module and a ×63 water immersion objective (NA 1.2). GFP was imaged using 488 nm excitation light and a 500–550-nm emission filter, while aniline blue was visualised using 405 nm excitation light and a 433–468-nm band-pass filter. Sequential multi-channel scans were collected. All reagents were sourced from ProSciTech (Kirwan, QLD, Australia) or Sigma-Aldrich (Sydney, NSW, Australia) unless otherwise stated. Arabidopsis roots expressing CNX1-GFP, CNX2-GFP or GFP targeted to the ER (ER-GFP; Nelson et al. (CITATION); seed obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Centre, Columbus, OH, USA) were fixed in 2 % (v/v) paraformaldehyde (EM-Grade) and 0.1 % (v/v) glutaraldehyde (EM-Grade) in PME (50 mM PIPES, 5 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgSO4, pH 6.8) for 1.5 h. Roots were washed in PME and then dehydrated in a graded ethanol series over 2 h. LR White resin with 2 % (w/v) benzoyl peroxide catalyst was infiltrated into the roots over 18 h at 30, 50 and 70 % resin, followed by 100 % resin. Alternatively, cotyledons and leaves of 5–7-day-old Arabidopsis seedlings expressing CNX1-GFP or CNX2-GFP were rapidly frozen in a Leica EM PACT high-pressure freezer and freeze substituted in 0.1 % (w/v) uranyl acetate and 0.2 % (v/v) glutaraldehyde in acetone for 3 days in a Leica Automatic Freeze Substitution processor set to −80 °C. The samples were warmed to −20 °C then infiltrated with a graded series of catalysed LR white resin over 3 days. All samples were infiltrated in 100 % LR White supplemented with accelerator (5 mg/mL benzoin methyl ether) over 24 h, then were embedded and polymerised at −20 °C under a 10-W ultraviolet lamp (EMUV, Leica) for 2 days. Ultrathin sections were transferred to nickel grids coated with support film. To immunolabel, the grids were incubated with 10 mg/mL BSA, 0.1 % (v/v) Tween 20 and 1 % (v/v) goat serum in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS; 10 mM Na2HPO4, 1.76 mM KH2PO4, 2.68 mM KCl, 137 mM NaCl) for 30 min. Grids were then incubated with polyclonal anti-GFP IgG generated in rabbit (Invitrogen) diluted 1:500 in PBS with 2 mg/mL BSA for 2 h, followed by a 2-h incubation with anti-rabbit FluoroNanogold Fab’ raised in goat and conjugated to Alexa Fluor 594 (Nanoprobes, Yaphank, NY, USA) diluted 1:30 in PBS with 2 mg/mL BSA. Gold enhancement was performed with a GoldEnhance kit (Nanoprobes) according to the manufacturer’s instructions, with the enhancement solution applied for 4–8 min. Sections were post-stained with 2 % (w/v) aqueous uranyl acetate and Reynold’s lead citrate, each for 10 min. A JEM 1400 (JEOL, Frenchs Forest, NSW, Australia) equipped with a Gatan Erlangshen camera (Gatan Inc., Pleasanton, CA, USA) was used to image the sections. All gold particles were counted at plasmodesmata and in the intervening wall in 26 micrographs (total wall area = 2.19 μm2) for CNX1, 34 micrographs (total wall area = 5.39 μm2) for CNX2 and 13 micrographs (total wall area = 1.33 μm2) for ER-GFP samples. All visible plasmodesmatal regions and intervening walls were traced digitally, and their total surface areas were determined using ImageJ. The densities of gold per region of cell wall or plasmodesmata were calculated and data was analysed using Student’s t test. GUS activity in Arabidopsis tissues was visualised using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl glucuronide (X-gluc; Fermentas, Glen Burnie, MD, USA). Plant tissue was fixed in ice-cold 90 % acetone for 30–60 min at 4 °C then incubated in staining buffer (50 mM NaH2PO4, 50 mM Na2HPO4, 1 mM K4Fe(CN)6 (Sigma), 1 mM K3Fe(CN)6 (Amresco), 0.05 % (v/v) Triton X-100, pH 7.0) for 30 min at 4 °C, then with staining buffer plus 0.5 mg/mL X-gluc. The stain was infiltrated into tissues under vacuum for at least 20 min on ice. Infiltrated samples were incubated at 37 °C overnight in the dark to promote GUS activity. Tissues were decolourised in 70-100 % ethanol at room temperature. Samples were photographed on the Axiophot microscope or scanned using a flatbed scanner. RNA was extracted from tissues using the RNeasy Plant kit with additional on-column DNase treatment (Qiagen). To synthesise cDNA, 1 μg total RNA was reverse transcribed in 20 μL reactions using the iScript cDNA Synthesis kit with oligo-dT and random hexamer primers (Bio-Rad) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Each 5 μL qRT-PCR reaction contained 1 μL cDNA (diluted 10×), 0.5 μM of each primer, and 1× SYBR Green master mix (Roche Applied Science). Reactions were run in a LightCycler 480 instrument (Roche) with 45 amplification cycles of 95 °C for 10 s, 60 °C for 10 s and 72 °C for 10 s. Melting curves were determined by denaturation at 95 °C for 10 s, followed by ramping from 55 to 95 °C at 2.5 °C/s during with fluorescence acquisition every 0.2 °C. Primer pairs were designed using ProbeFinder version 2.44 (http://qpcr.probefinder.com, Roche Applied Science) and are listed in Table S2. Transcript abundance was normalised to the reference gene UBC9 (At4g27960; Czechowski et al. CITATION; Hong et al. CITATION). Two to three biological replicate samples were analysed in duplicate PCRs. The relative quantities of the candidate genes and reference genes were calculated by the E-method (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN, software version 1.5.0 SP3). The PCR efficiency was determined using LinRegPCR software (Ramakers et al. CITATION) and used to calculate corrected mean quantities of each gene in each sample relative to the reference gene, along with the standard deviations of the technical replicates. t tests were used to determine if there were statistically significant differences in transcript levels between calnexin mutants and wild-type plants. We hypothesised that in the absence of CNX1 and CNX2, the corresponding calnexin levels would decrease and when CNX1 or CNX2 were overexpressed, the corresponding calnexin levels would decrease. We also hypothesised that in the absence of CNX1 and/or CNX2, mutant plants would increase the levels of other ER-related proteins. For these reasons, one-tailed t tests were used for this data. In comparison, we hypothesised that the levels of plasmodesmata-related proteins could either increase or decrease in the mutant plants so two-tailed t tests were used for this data. Whole, 13-day-old, plate-grown Arabidopsis seedlings were ground to a powder while frozen and total protein was extracted in Laemmli extraction buffer at 80 °C for 10 min. Total protein was quantified, and then separated using SDS-PAGE. The proteins were transferred to membranes and immunoprobed with the primary antibodies: anti-calnexin diluted 1:200–1:250 (GenScript Corporation, Piscataway, NJ, USA) or anti-porin diluted 1:10,000 (gift from Harvey Millar, University of Western Australia). The anti-calnexin antibody was generated in rabbit against an epitope from human calnexin (HsCNX, SwissProt P27824), which has 86 % sequence similarity to the corresponding Arabidopsis calnexin sequence. The porin antibody was used as a loading standard. Protein band intensities were measured in three blots from two biological replicates using ImageJ. Intensities for the calnexin and calreticulin bands were normalised to the porin band for each sample.
