!~ABS~! In flowering plants, pollen tube growth is essential for delivery of male gametes into the female gametophyte or embryo sac for double fertilization. Although many genes have been identified as being involved in the process, the molecular mechanisms of pollen tube growth remains poorly understood. In this study, we identified that the Arabidopsis Transmembrane Protein 18 (AtTMEM18) gene played important roles in pollen tube growth. The AtTMEM18 shares a high similarity with the Transmembrane 18 proteins (TMEM18s) that are conserved in most eukaryotes and may play important roles in obesity in humans. Mutation in the AtTMEM18 by a Ds insertion caused abnormal callose deposition in the pollen grains and had a significant impact on pollen germination and pollen tube growth. AtTMEM18 is expressed in pollen grains, pollen tubes, root tips and other vegetative tissues. The pollen‐rescued assays showed that the mutation in AtTMEM18 also caused defects in roots, stems, leaves and transmitting tracts. AtTMEM18‐GFP was located around the nuclei. Genetic assays demonstrated that the localization of AtTMEM18 around the nuclei in the generative cells of pollen grains was essential for the male fertility. Furthermore, expression of the rice TMEM18‐homologous protein (OsTMEM18) driven by LAT52 promoter could recover the fertility of the Arabidopsis attmem18 mutant. These results suggested that the TMEM18 is important for plant growth in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! The attmem18 mutant was isolated in a genetic screen for male gametophyte‐defective mutants from a collection of gene‐trap and enhancer‐trap Ds insertion lines in Arabidopsis ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler) (Sundaresan et al. CITATION). The Ds insertion created a genetic tag of kanamycin resistance in the mutant plant. At first, a genetic analysis of the heterozygous attmem18‐1 (attmem18/+) plants was performed (Table CITATION). The progeny from self‐pollinated attmem18/+ plants exhibited a segregation ratio of approximately 1 kanamycin‐resistant (KanR): 1 kanamycin‐sensitive (KanS) (1282:1278), much lower than the typical Mendelian segregation ratio of 3 to 1. Furthermore, no homozygous KanR plants (attmem18/‐) were identified in the progeny. This result indicates that the attmem18 mutant is defective in gametophytic function. Genetic analysis of the attmem18/+ mutant KanR, kanamycin‐resistant; KanS, knanamycin‐sensitive. To determine how the mutation affected male or female gametophytic functions, the attmem18/+ plants were used as males or females to cross with wild type plants. As shown in Table CITATION, when the attmem18/+ plants were used as female parents, 50.71% (710/1400) of the resulting F1 progeny were KanR. In contrast, when attmem18/+ pollen grains were used to pollinate wild type plants, no KanR plants in the F1 progeny were obtained (0:2237). Thus, the attmem18 mutation disrupted male gametophytic function completely, but did not affect female gametophytic function. To investigate how attmem18 affected male gametophytic function, observation of attmem18 male gametophyte development was performed. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) showed that most of the pollen grains from the attmem18/+ plants were as normal as wild type pollen grains in morphology (Figure CITATIONA, B). 4′6‐diamidino‐2‐phenylindole (DAPI) staining showed that the pollen grains from the attmem18/+ plants had two sperm nuclei and a vegetative nucleus like wild type pollen grains (Figure CITATIONC, D). These results indicated that the attmem18 mutation did not affected pollen formation. Phenotypic characterization of attmem18 pollen grains (A, B) SEM images of pollen grains from wild type (A) and attmem18/+ plants (B). (C, D) DAPI‐stained pollen grains from wild type (C) and attmem18/+ plants (D). (E–H) Aniline blue‐stained pollen grains from wild type (E), attmem18/+ (F), qrt1/qrt1 (G) and attmem18/+; qrt1/qrt1 plants (H). (I, J) Section and immunofluorescence assays of pollen grains from wild type (I) and attmem18 /+ plants (J). The red arrows indicate the dotted callose deposition in the pollen grains. SN, sperm cell nuclei; VN, vegetative cell nuclei. Bars = 20 µm. Aniline blue, which is a specific dye for callose, was used to study the callose deposition pattern in the attmem18 pollen by comparison with wild type pollen. No obvious fluorescence signal was observed in wild type pollen grains (Figure CITATIONE) as expected. In contrast, 23.2% of pollen grains from attmem18/+ plants exhibited the dotted fluorescence signals (Table S1, Figure CITATIONF), indicating that a number of attmem18/+ pollen grains had an abnormal callose deposition. Because no homozygous attmem18 mutant could be generated for the assays, attmem18 mutant was introgressed into a background of quartet1‐2 (qrt1‐2) mutant to perform quartet assay (Preuss et al. CITATION). The qrt1‐2 mutation blocks physical separation of the tetrad pollen grains, but does not affect the germination and growth of the pollen tubes (Preuss et al. CITATION). Therefore, a tetrad from the attmem18/+; qrt1/qrt1 mutant plants had two qrt1‐2 (presenting wild type) pollen gains and two qrt1‐2; attmem18 (presenting attmem18 mutant) pollen grains. When the tetrads pollen grains from qrt1‐2 and attmem18/+; qrt1/qrt1 plants were stained with aniline blue, no obvious fluorescence could be seen in qrt1‐2 pollen grains from the qrt1/qrt1 mutant plant, while 24.1% of pollen grains from the attmem18/+; qrt1‐2/qrt1‐2 plants showed dotted callose deposition patterns (Table S1, Figure CITATIONG, H), indicating that the pollen grains carrying the attmem18 in the tetrads exhibited an unusual callose deposition. To verify the location of callose deposition in the attmem18 pollen grains, callose‐specific antibody was used to locate the callose in the section of attmem18 pollen grains from the attmem18/+ plants. As shown in Figure CITATIONJ, the punctate callose signals appeared nearby the inner wall in the attmem18 pollen grain sections, compared to that no obvious fluorescence signals were observed in the sections of the wild type pollen grains (Figure CITATIONI). These results showed that the attmem18 pollen grains had an abnormal callose deposition during germination process. To study how attmem18 mutation affected the male gametophytic function, we further examined the germination of attmem18 pollen grains. The mature pollen grains from attmem18/+ plant were cultured in vitro. 39.8% of the pollen grains from attmem18/+ plants germinated in vitro, compared to that 76.2% of the pollen grains from wild type plants could germinate under the same culture condition (Figure CITATIONA–C), indicating that the attmem18 significantly reduced pollen germination in vitro. The attmem18 affected in vitro and in vivo germination of pollen grains (A, B) The in vitro germination of pollen grains from wild‐type (A) and attmem18/+ plants (B). (C) Germination rates of pollen grains from wild type (WT) and attmem18/+ plants. (D, E) SEM images showing in vivo germination of the pollen grains from wild type (C) and attmem18/+ plants (D). (F–I) The in vivo germination of pollen grains from qrt1/qrt1 plants (F), wild type (G), attmem18/+ (H) and attmem18/+; qrt1/qrt1 plants (I). Pg, pollen grain; Pt, pollen tubes; Stg, stigmatic cells. White arrows indicate the ungerminated pollen grains. The red arrows indicate abnormal callose deposition in the pollen grains and pollen tubes. Bars = 20 µm. * P < 0.05. Then we examined the pollen germination efficiency of the attmem18 in vivo. After the pollen grains from attmem18/+ and wild type plants were pollinated to the emasculated wild type flowers for 12 h, they were observed by SEM, respectively. All the wild type pollen tubes could normally grow into the stigma (Figure CITATIOND). In contrast, some of the pollen tubes generated by the pollen grains from attmem18/+ plants were short and swollen (Figure CITATIONE). Among the pollen grains from attmem18/+ plants, 57.0% could grow morphologically normal pollen tubes, 18.4% did not germinate, and 24.6% produced shorter and swollen pollen tubes. In comparison, 95.9% of wild type pollen tubes could grow normally through the stigma (Table S2). The quartet assays also achieved a similar result. In most tetrads from the attmem18/+; qrt1/qrt1 plants, only 1 or 2 pollen grains could germinate pollen tubes. In general, 36.2% pollen grains produced normal pollen tubes, 35.0% pollen grains did not germinate, and 28.7% of pollen grains generated swollen pollen tubes (Table S2). In the control, most of the qrt1‐2 tetrads could have three or four pollen grains produce pollen tubes (Figure CITATIONF). The germination rate was 68.1% (Table S2). Aniline blue staining showed that the callose deposition pattern in attmem18 pollen tube inner walls was obviously different from that in wild type pollen tubes. In the wild type, the callose exhibited as strong and round fluorescent signals, and uniformly distributed on the inner wall of pollen tubes. Callose plugs were formed in the elongating wild type pollen tubes (Figure CITATIONG). In the attmem18 mutant pollen grains from attmem18/+ and attmem18/+; qrt1/qrt1 plants, callose exhibited as a punctate distribution pattern (Figure CITATIONH, I) and distributed irregularly in the swollen pollen tube inner walls. The punctate distribution pattern was not found in the morphologically normal pollen tubes (Figure CITATIONG, H). This result indicated that the abnormal callose deposition was likely related to the defect of the attmem18 pollen tubes. Thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (TAIL‐PCR) (Liu et al. CITATION; Liu and Whittier CITATION) was applied to obtain the flanking sequences adjacent to the Ds element in attmem18. Sequence analysis showed that the Ds element was inserted into the first exon of gene At1g34350, 261 bp downstream from start codon ATG (Figure CITATIONA). The Ds insertion site was further confirmed by conventional PCR using the gene‐specific (AtTMEM18‐Ds‐3′) and Ds‐5′ border (Ds5‐3) primers (Table S4). Molecular characterization of attmem18 mutant (A) The organization of the AtTMEM18 gene, showing the Ds element insertion site. (B, C) The in vitro germination of pollen grains from wild type (B) and complemented plants (C). (D) Pollen germination rates of the wild type (WT) and the complemented (Comp) plants. Bars = 20 µm. To verify the phenotype of attmem18/+ was caused by the Ds insertion in AtTMEM18 (At1g34350), the genomic sequence of AtTMEM18, which included the 1.0‐kb promoter, 1.5‐kb coding region and 3′‐terminal region of AtTMEM18, was cloned into Ti‐derived vector pCAMBIA1300 (CAMBIA, Australia) and introduced into the heterozygous attmem18 (attmem18/+) plants via Agrobacterium tumefaciens‐mediated infiltration transformation (Bechtold and Pelletier CITATION). The seeds from the T1 transgenic attmem18/+ plants were plated on kanamycin‐containing agar plates to analyze the Ds segregation ratio. The progeny from self‐pollinated 34 out of 40 transformant lines segregated in an increased ratio of KanR: KanS, compared to those from self‐crossed attmem18/+ controls (Table S3). The aniline blue staining assays showed that the transgenic attmem18 pollen grains exhibited a normal callose distribution pattern like wild type pollen grains (Figure S1). Furthermore, the in vitro pollen germination rates of the transformed attmem18 lines were increased (Figure CITATIONB–D) to the values similar to that of wild type pollen. These results demonstrated that the defects in pollen tube growth could be complemented by the introduction of the wild type AtTMEM18 genomic DNA fragment. The expression pattern of AtTMEM18 was first analyzed by RT‐PCR and Northern blotting hybridization using the RNAs extracted from different wild type plant tissues including seedlings, roots, stems, leaves, flowers, and siliques. The expression of AtTMEM18 were detected mainly in roots and inflorescences, weaker in seedlings, leaves and siliques (Figure CITATIONA, B), suggesting that AtTMEM18 was a constitutive expression gene. Expression patterns of AtTMEM18 (A, B) RT‐PCR assay and Northern‐blotting, comparing the AtTMEM18 mRNA levels in seedlings, roots, stems, leaves, flowers and siliques. (C–I) GUS activity in seedling (C), root (D), leaf (E), inflorescence (F), anther (G), pollen tube (H) and silique (I) from transgenic wild type plants carrying the pAtTMEM18:GUS construct. Bars = 1 mm in (C) and (E), 0.5 mm in (F) and (I), 0.1 mm in (D) and (G), 10 µm in (H). The expression pattern of AtTMEM18 was further examined by promoter activity assay. The AtTMEM18 promoter was fused to GUS reporter gene and introduced into wild type plants. The GUS activity was detected mainly in root tips, the cotyledon of seedlings, mature anthers and pollen tubes (Figure CITATIONC–I), consistent with the results from RT‐PCR and Northern blotting hybridization. These results indicated that AtTMEM18 is constitutively expressed in many tissues, with higher levels in the tissues active in cell growth and differentiation. As mentioned above, attmem18 disrupts the male gametophytic function. No attmem18 homozygous plant was obtained for further investigation of AtTMEM18 function. To further examine the impact of attmem18 on vegetative development, we performed the pollen rescue experiments using promoter of the pollen‐specific gene LAT52 (Muschietti et al. CITATION) fused with AtTMEM18 coding region. The resulting pLAT52:AtTMEM18 construct was introduced into attmem18/+ mutant plants. The seeds from self‐pollinated T1 transgenic plants were planted on agar plates containing kanamycin. The progeny from the self‐pollinated pollen‐rescued plants (attmem18/+; pLAT52:AtTMEM18/+) segregated in a rate of approximately 2 KanR: 1 KanS, indicating that the construct (pLAT52:AtTMEM18) could restore attmem18 gametophytic function (Table S3). The pollen‐rescued lines, which were heterozygous for the Ds insertion and homozygous for the T‐DNA insertion (attmem18/+ pLAT52:AtTMEM18/pLAT52:AtTMEM18) were generated and selected for further assays. In the progeny from self‐pollinated pollen‐rescued plants, approximately 25% (247/1,014) of the seedlings were stunted, compared to wild type seedlings. The hypocotyls, roots and cotyledons of the pollen‐rescued seedlings were shorter (Figure CITATIONB–D), compared to those of wild type. When these stunted seedlings developed into mature plants, the height of plants and length of siliques were shorter than those of wild type plants (Figure CITATIONE). The clarified root tips and root paraffin cross sections of the pollen‐rescued attmem18 seedlings showed that the structures of the root cells were drastically disordered (Figure CITATIONG, K) compared to those of wild type plants (Figure CITATIONF, J). SEM and paraffin cross section observation showed that the epidermal cells of the hypocotyl in pollen‐rescued attmem18 seedlings were distorted (Figure CITATIONI, M). The siliques of pollen‐rescued attmem18 plants were shorter, in which seed set often occurred only in the upper halves of the siliques (Figure CITATIONN, O). When the pollen grains from pollen‐rescued attmem18 plants were pollinated to wild type pistils, the resulting pollen tubes could grow to the bottom of the pollinated wild type pistils (Figure CITATIONP). In contrast, when the wild type pollen grains were pollinated to the pistils of the pollen‐rescued attmem18 plants, the wild type pollen tubes could grow into style, but could not elongate to the bottom of the pistil (Figure CITATIONQ). These results suggested that the pLAT52:AtTMEM18 construct only specifically restored the gametophytic function, but did not restore silique development. Therefore, the pollen‐rescued mutant materials could be used to further study the impact of attmem18 on vegetative development. Phenotypic characterization of the pollen‐rescued attmem18 mutants (A) Expression levels of AtTMEM18 were drastically reduced in the pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous seedlings as revealed by RT‐PCR. (B, C) A 10‐d‐old pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous seedling (B), compared with the 10‐d‐old wild type seedling (C) under the same growth conditions. (D) A mature pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous plant compared with wild type plant (WT) under the same growth conditions. (E) The flowering pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous plants compared with wild type plants (WT) under the same growth conditions. (F) A clarified wild type root tip, showing the typical cell organization pattern. (G) A clarified pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous root tip, showing the defect in the cell morphology and organization. (H, I) The SEM images of hypocotyl epidermal cells in wild type seedlings (H) and pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous seedling (I). The red arrow indicates the distorted epidermal cell organization. (J, K) The cross sectioning images of wild type root (J) and pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous root (K). (L, M) Comparison of the paraffin cross‐sections between wild type hypocotyl (L) and pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous hypocotyl (M). The red oval indicates irregularly hypocotyl cells. (N) Comparison of the siliques at the 7th day after pollination (DAP) between wild type and pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous plants. The silique of homozygous attmem18 mutant was much shorter than that of wild type. (O) Mature siliques from wild type plants and attmem18 plants. (P) The growth of attmem18 pollen tubes in the wild type (Ler) at 12 DAP. (Q) The growth of wild type pollen tubes in the attmem18 silique at 12 DAP. (R, S) Comparison of paraffin cross section in wild type pistil (R) and attmem18 pistil (S). The red arrow indicates the unfused style diaphragm in attmem18 pistil. Bars = 500 µm in (B) to (D), (N) and (O), 50 µm in (F) to (M), (P) to (S). To examine the impact of the attmem18 on silique development, the paraffin section of transmitting tissue of pollen‐rescued attmem18 plants were observed. The results showed that the style diaphragm of pollen‐rescued attmem18 siliques was not fused, compared to the wild type siliques (Figure CITATIONR, S). These results indicated that the cell morphogenesis in pollen‐rescued attmem18 mutant siliques were affected. PCR assays using DNA from the defective pollen‐rescued attmem18 seedlings indicated that they were homozygous for the attmem18 mutation. RT‐PCR assays using the RNAs extracted from the pollen‐rescued attmem18 homozygous seedlings showed that expression of AtTMEM18 was dramatically reduced in the pollen‐rescued attmem18 seedlings (Figure CITATIONA). Transgenic wild type plants with pLAT52:AtTMEM18 coding region construct were examined as a negative control, no defective plants were found in these transgenic plants in wild type background. Therefore, the attmem18 mutation also affected vegetative development in Arabidopsis. AtTMEM18 protein has 163 amino acid residues in length and contains three predicted transmembrane domains (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services). It shares similarities with the proteins from many species in eucaryon except yeast and nematode, but not in bacteria. In particular, AtTMEM18 shares 72% similarity with LOC100527513 (Glycine max) and POPTRDRAFT_287702 (Populus trichoca), 59% similarity with LOC100283849 (Zea mays), 53% similarity with Os05g0432500 (Oryza sativa) and 34% similarity with Transmembrane 18 (Mus musculus) and TMEM18 (Homo sapiens) (Figure CITATIONA). The phylogenetic tree analysis showed that TMEM18 proteins could be clustered into animal and plant groups, respectively (Figure CITATIONB). AtTMEM18 belongs to the plant group. AtTMEM18 shares sequence similarity with many TMEM18 from other species (A) Sequence alignment of AtTMEM18‐homologous proteins. (B) Phylogenetic analysis of AtTMEM1‐homologous proteins. The scale bar represents genetic distance. Species and accession number: Arabidopsis thaliana, AT1G34350; Glycine max, NP_001237116; Populus euphratica, XP_011038158; Oryza sativa Japonica Group, Os05g0432500; Zea mays, AFW61473; Mus musculus, NP_742046; Homo sapiens, NP_690047; Danio rerio, NP_001005601; Drosophila mojavensis, EDW08271. To investigate the subcellular localization of AtTMEM18, 1.0‐kb promoter of AtTMEM18 was fused to the AtTMEM18 genomic coding region and the coding sequence of green fluorescent protein (GFP). The resulting construct pAtTMEM18:gAtTMEM18‐GFP was introduced into wild type and heterozygous attmem18/+ plants, respectively. Genetic analysis showed that the progeny from self‐pollination of the resulting transgenic heterozygous (attmem18/+) segregated in a KanR: KanS ratio of up to 2:1 (Table S3), indicating that the AtTMEM18‐GFP fusion protein could function normally. The GFP signals were observed in roots, pollen grains at the unicellular to tricellular stages and pollen tubes. In unicellular pollen grains, the GFP signals were detected around the unique nuclei (Figure CITATIONA). In the bicellular pollen grains, the GFP signals appeared around the vegetative and generative nuclei (Figure CITATIONB). In the tricellular pollen grains, the GFP signals were located around the vegetative and two sperm nuclei (Figure CITATIONC). In the germinating pollen grains, the GFP signals were detected around the vegetative and sperm nuclei in the growing pollen tubes (Figure CITATIOND). In the root hair, the GFP signals were expressed around the nuclei (Figure CITATIONE). Subcellular localization of AtTMEM18‐GFP (A–E) The GFP signals were located around the nuclei in unicellular pollen grain (A), bicellulare pollen grain (B), tricellulare pollen grain (C), pollen tube (D) and root hair (E) from the pAtTMEM18:gAtTMEM18‐GFP transgenic plants. (F–I) The GFP signals were located around the nuclei in the unicellular pollen grain (F), bicellulare pollen grain (G), tricellulare pollen grain (H) and root hair (I) from pAtTMEM18:cAtTMEM18‐GFP transgenic plants. GN, generative nuclei; N, nuclei; VN, vegetative nuclei; Bars = 5 µm. To examine whether the protein localization was related to the introns of the gene, another construct was generated by replacing the genomic coding sequence (gAtTMEM18) with the AtTMEM18 cDNA. The resulting pAtTMEM18:cAtTMEM18‐GFP construct was also introduced into heterozygous attmem18 (attmem18/+) plants. The progeny from the self‐pollinated transgenic attmem18/+ plants segregated in a ratio of 1 KanR:1 KanS, like the progeny from the self‐pollinated nontransgenic attmem18/+ plants, indicating that pAtTMEM18:cAtTMEM18‐GFP could not restore the fertility of attmem18 mutant. The GFP signal was detected in the pAtTMEM18:cAtTMEM18‐GFP transgenic pollen grains and roots (Figure CITATIONF–I) roots and pollen grains. In the transgenic root hairs, the GFP signals could be detected around the nucleus like those in the pAtTMEM18:gAtTMEM18‐GFP transgenic plants (FigureCITATIONI). During the periods of pollen development, however, the GFP signals were appeared only around the vegetative cell nuclei (Figure CITATIONF–H), differently from those in the pAtTMEM18:gAtTMEM18‐GFP transgenic pollen grains in which GFP signals were located not only around the vegetative nuclei but also around the generative nuclei at the bicellular stage or around the sperm nuclei at the mature pollen stage. These results indicated that the introns of the AtTMEM18 was related to its expression in generative and sperm nuclei in Arabidopsis. To further examine which intron was involved in its expression regulation in AtTMEM18, deletion assays were performed. AtTMEM18 gene has three introns (Figure S2A). As shown in Figure S2A, six constructs were generated for the assays. The resulting six constructs were introduced into attmem18/+ plants, respectively. The genetic analyses showed that the progeny from all the six construct transgenic attmem18/+ plants segregated in a ratio of approximately 2 KanR: 1 KanS (Table S3), indicating that all six constructs could complement the fertility of attmem18 mutant. The GFP signals were located around the vegetative and sperm nuclei of the transgenic tricellular pollen grains (Figure S2B). Thus, any one intron of AtTMEM18 could be enough to enable the correct expression of AtTMEM18 in the pollen grains. BlastP search showed that rice (Oryza sativa) also has a TMEM18‐homologous protein, namely Os05g0432500. To examine whether Os05g0432500 had the same function as AtTMEM18 in Arabidopsis, the construct pLAT52:Os05g0432500 was generated and introduced into attmem18/+ mutant plants. The seedlings from the self‐pollinated T1 transgenic plants segregated in a ratio of 2 KanR: 1 KanS (Table S3), compared to the 1 KanR: 1 KanS segregation of the seedlings from the self‐pollinated non‐transgenic attmem18/+ mutant plants. The result showed that the rice Os05g0432500 protein could complement the functional loss of AtTMEM18 in Arabidopsis.
!~MM~! The Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this study were all in Landsberg erecta background. The seeds were plated on MS‐salt agar plates with or without 50 mg/L kanamycin (Sigma‐Aldrich) or 20 mg/L hygromycin (Roche, Basel, Switzerland) at 4 °C for 2 d. Then the seeds were cultured at 22 °C under a light cycle of 16 h light/8 h dark for 10 d. The resulting 10‐d‐old seedlings were grown into soil in the same growth condition. The generation of Ds insertion lines and screen of mutants were performed as described by Sundaresan et al. (CITATION). Morphological observations of pollen grains by SEM were performed as described by Jiang et al. (CITATION). Pollen viability was examined using Alexander staining (Alexander CITATION). DAPI staining of pollen grains was performed as described by Yang et al. (CITATION). To examine in vitro pollen germination, the pollen grains were plated on the agar‐solid pollen germination medium containing 1 mM KCl, 10 mM CaCl2, 0.8 mM MgSO4, 0.01% H3BO3 and 18% sucrose. Then the pollen plates were incubated at 22–24 °C for 6 h. At least 300 pollen grains were examined to calculate the average germination rates for each sample. To examine in vivo pollen tube growth, the flowers were emasculated one day before anthesis. The being cultured at 22 °C for 6 h, the pollinated pistils were mounted onto the sample platform and quickly examined for the pollen tube growth patterns on the stigma by SEM (HITACHI, S‐3400N). On the other hand, the pollinated pistils were collected and fixed in fixing solution (ethanol:acetic acid = 3:1) for 6 h. Then the fixed pistils were softened in 8 M NaOH overnight. After washed with water for several times, the pistils were stained with aniline blue buffer (0.1% aniline blue in 0.1 M K2HPO4‐KOH buffer with pH = 11.0) for 2 h in the dark. The pollen tube growth patterns inside the pistils were observed using fluorescence microscopy (LEICA, DM2500, Germany). Pollen grain immunocytochemistry assay was performed as described by Geitmann et al. (CITATION). The flanking sequence adjacent to the Ds element was obtained by TAIL‐PCR (Liu et al. CITATION; Liu and Whittier CITATION). Extraction of the attmem18 genomic DNA and TAIL‐PCR were performed using Ds/AD primer sets, as described previously (Yang et al. CITATION). The Ds insertion was confirmed by conventional PCR using Ds‐specific primers Ds5‐3 (Table S4) paired with the gene‐specific primer AtTMEM18‐Ds‐3′ (Table S4). The Ds insertion site was determined by sequencing of the resulting flanking DNA fragments. The 5′ upstream sequence and genomic DNA of AtTMEM18 was amplified using rTaq (TaKaRa, Japan) with primers AtTMEM18‐g‐5′ and AtTMEM18‐g‐3′ (Table S4) and verified by sequencing. The resulting DNA fragment was cloned into the Ti‐derived binary vector pCAMBIA1300 (CAMBIA, Australia) and introduced into the attmem18 heterozygous mutant plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101)‐mediated infiltration method (Bechtold and Pelletier CITATION). The transformant plants were selected on MS medium supplemented with 50 mg/L kanamycin and 20 mg/L hygromycin. The selected transgenic plants were transferred into soil to produce T2 seeds. The T2 seeds were germinated on kanamycin‐containing MS agar plates to evaluate the complementation efficiency by analyzing the segregation ratio of kanamycin resistance. The pollen rescue experiment was performed by pollen‐specific expression of AtTMEM18 coding region in attmem18/+ plants. The coding region of AtTMEM18 was amplified using rTaq with primers AtTMEM18‐c‐5′ and AtTMEM18‐c‐3′ (Table S4). The LAT52 promoter fragment was obtained from the plasmid pUCLNGFP2 (a gift from Dr. Zhenbiao Yang, Department of Botany and Plant Science, University of California at Riverside, CA). The resulting DNA fragment was cloned into Ti‐derived binary vector pCAMBIA1300. The resulting constructs were transformed into attmem18/+ plants. The selection and segregation analysis of transformant plants was performed as described above. The total RNA of rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings was extracted with cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) solution (Yu and Goh CITATION). Reverse transcription was performed using alfalfa mosaic virus reverse transcriptase (AMV, TaKaRa, http://www.takara-bio.com/). The coding region of Os05g0432500 was amplified using rTaq with primers Os‐c‐5′ and Os‐c‐3′ (Table S4). The pLAT52:Os05g0432500 construct was transformed into attmem18/+ plants. The selection and genetic analysis of transformant plants was performed as described above. The seedlings, roots, stems, leaves, flowers and siliques were harvested from 2‐week‐old seedlings and 4‐week‐old flowering plants, respectively. The total RNAs were extracted with cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) solution (Yu and Goh CITATION). Reverse transcription was performed using alfalfa mosaic virus reverse transcriptase (AMV, TaKaRa, http://www.takara-bio.com/). TUBULIN cDNA was used as an internal control to normalize the amount of cDNA templates. The primers TUBULIN‐RT‐5′ and TUBULIN‐RT‐3′ (Table S4) were used to amplify the TUBULIN cDNA fragment. The primers AtTMEM18–RT‐5′ and AtTMEM18–RT‐3′ (Table S4) were used to assess the expression level of AtTMEM18 as previously described by Yang et al. (CITATION). In Northern blotting hybridization, AtTMEM18 gene‐specific probe was amplified by rTaq using the primers AtTMEM18–RT‐5′ and AtTMEM18–RT‐3′ (Table S4). The RNA probes were labeled using the DIG RNA labeling kit (Roche, Indianapolis, IN, USA) as described by the supplier. RNA gel blotting hybridizations were performed following the instructions of the DIG system and DIG application manual provided by the supplier. The AtTMEM18 promoter was amplified using rTaq with primers AtTMEM18‐p‐5′ and AtTMEM18‐p‐3′ (Table S4). After verified by sequencing, the fragment was subcloned upstream of the GUS reporter gene in Ti‐derived binary vector pCAMBIA1300 to generate the expression cassette pAtTMEM18:GUS. The resulting construct was introduced into the wild type plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101)‐mediated infiltration method (Bechtold and Pelletier CITATION). The transformant plants were selected on MS medium supplemented with 20 mg/L hygromycin. The selected transgenic plants were transferred into soil to produce T2 seeds. GUS staining of T2 plants tissues were performed as described previously (Sundaresan et al. CITATION; Yang et al. CITATION). For paraffin sectioning, the roots, stems, leaves and siliques of the pollen‐rescued attmem18 plants and wild type plants were fixed in 50% formalin‐acetic acid‐alcohol (FAA) solution and processed according to Shi et al. (CITATION) and Yang et al. (CITATION). The observation of the clarified root tips were as described by Yang et al. (CITATION). The AtTMEM18 promoter fragment was amplified using rTaq (TaKaRa) with primers AtTMEM18‐P‐5′ and AtTMEM18‐P‐3′ (Table S4). The AtTMEM18 genomic DNA fragment without the stop codon was amplified by rTaq using primers AtTMEM18‐g‐5′‐2 and AtTMEM18‐g‐3′‐2 (Table S4). The AtTMEM18 coding region fragment without the stop codon was amplified using rTaq with primers AtTMEM18‐c‐5′ and AtTMEM18‐c‐3′ (Table S4). After verified by sequencing, the AtTMEM18 promoter and genomic DNA fragments were subcloned in front of the NOS terminator sequence (TNOS) in the modified pCAMBIA1300 vector which contained GFP coding region, resulting in a pAtTMEM18:gAtTMEM18‐GFP:TNOS construct. The pAtTMEM18:cAtTMEM18‐GFP:TNOS construct was generated in the same way. The pAtTMEM18:gAtTMEM18‐GFP:TNOS and pAtTMEM18:cAtTMEM18‐GFP:TNOS constructs were introduced into attmem18/+ and wild type plants, respectively. The transformant plants were selected using 50 mg/L kanamycin and 20 mg/L hygromycin. The subcellular localization of AtTMEM18‐GFP fusion protein in the roots, pollen grains and pollen tubes was visualized under a confocal microscope (LSM510, Carl Zeiss, Germany, http://www.zeiss.com).
