!~ABS~! N-Glycosylation is very common in integral membrane proteins of the animal lysosome but it is very rare in Arabidopsis tonoplast proteins, indicating divergent evolution of the lysosomal and vacuolar membranes.
!~RES~! To obtain an overview on the putative N-glycosylation status of Arabidopsis membrane proteins, in silico analysis was performed, searching for N-glycosylated membrane proteins and their subcellular distribution. Published proteomics data on the Arabidopsis vacuole (tonoplast plus soluble proteins) or tonoplast (CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2007) were first compared. Ninety-five sequences that had been assigned to the tonoplast in all these studies were selected. To enrich our TMP database, a search for proteins annotated as ‘tonoplast’ was performed in the TAIR database; integral membrane proteins were extracted from the resulting list using the ‘bulk protein search’ tool and, if not already present, they were added to our database (Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online, A.th.TMPs, highlighted in blue). Finally, proteins for which there is published experimental evidence for a localization other than the tonoplast were discarded. In total, we thus identified 109 integral tonoplast proteins (Supplementary Table S1, A.th.TMPs). A search and selection using the same criteria was performed on Arabidopsis plasma membrane proteins (PMPs). Proteomic analysis by CITATIONet al. (2004) reported 238 putative PMPs. This study was chosen because it contains the highest number of identified polypeptides. Integral membrane proteins annotated as ‘Plasma membrane’ were also extracted from the TAIR protein database. When the two lists were combined, proteins that were experimentally verified to be not at the plasma membrane were discarded and only integral membrane proteins were considered; 183 proteins were thus selected (Supplementary Table S2, A.th.PMPs). Putative sequon positions in the selected proteins were predicted by a bioinformatics procedure (pipeline) that combined the analysis of transmembrane protein topology by the TMHMM or Phobius software and the search for putative N-glycosylation sites by the NetNGlyc software (tripeptides with proline in the X position were excluded). The following further limitations were considered. Amino acids located in cytosolic or transmembrane regions cannot come into contact with the oligosaccharyltransferase and therefore cannot be glycosylated. Moreover, close proximity to transmembrane domains or the N-terminal signal peptide inhibits glycosylation, because of steric effects (CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2001): mutagenesis indicated that, to be glycosylated, the luminal sequon must be at minimal distances of 12 and 14 residues after the end and before the beginning of a transmembrane segment, respectively (CITATION; CITATION). Consistently, the single luminal sequon of the tonoplast tandem-pore potassium channel 1 (TPK1, At5g55630) that immediately precedes the second transmembrane helix is not glycosylated in vivo (CITATIONet al., 2011). N-Glycosylation sites that did not meet these requirements were excluded. Analysis using the TMHMM algorithm indicated that only 17 out of the 109 TMPs can be glycosylated, representing 15.6% of the tonoplast proteome and having in total 41 sequons (CITATION; for details see Supplementary Table S1, TMHMM_A.th.TMPs N-glyc sites and TMHMM_N-glyc A.th.TMPs). The Phobius algorithm was more selective: 12 sequences were validated, with 28 sequons (Supplementary Table S1, Phobius_A.th.TMPs N-glyc sites and Phobius_ N-glyc A.th.TMPs; note that 11 sequences were shared by both algorithms). Putative N-glycosylated integral tonoplast proteins (N-glyc TMPs) of Arabidopsis thaliana, identified using NetGlyc and TMHMM algorithms Among the 183 integral proteins of the plasma membrane, 82 polypeptides, representing 45% of the total, contain 370 sequons that satisfy the criteria described above for N-glycosylation when analyzed by the TMHMM algorithm (CITATION; for details see Supplementary Table S2, TMHMM_A.th. PMPs N-glyc sites and TMHMM_N-glyc A.th.PMPs). Also in this case the Phobius algorithm is more stringent, identifying 71 putative N-glycosylated PMPs in Arabidopsis for a total of 319 sequons (Supplementary Table S2, Phobius_A.th.PMPs N-glyc sites and Phobius_N-glyc A.th.PMPs, for more details). Putative N-glycosylated integral plasma membrane proteins (N-glyc PMPs) of Arabidopsis thaliana, identified using NetGlyc and TMHMM algorithms These data indicate that a much lower fraction of the tonoplast than the plasma membrane proteome may be N-glycosylated (CITATION) and that glycoproteins with more than two sequons are rare in the tonoplast but very frequent in the plasma membrane (CITATION). This suggests an enrichment of N-glycans on the cell surface and a selective depletion on the tonoplast. The N-glycoproteome is under-represented in the Arabidopsis tonoplast. (A) Percentage of polypeptides containing sequons that satisfy the requirements for N-glycosylation (N-glycoproteome) in the proteomes of the Arabidopsis tonoplast or plasma membrane, and of the rat lysosomal or plasma membranes. (B) Distribution of sequons per protein in the four N-glycoproteomes illustrated in (A). The TMHMM algorithm was used to define transmembrane domains and protein topology. As mentioned in the Introduction, vacuoles and lysosomes share a number of features and functions. We thus wondered whether the observations we made regarding Arabidopsis can be extended to a model animal. The recently described rat (Rattus norvegicus) liver lysosomal proteome (CITATIONet al., 2013) was first analyzed, searching for putative LMPs. We thus excluded the proteins with ‘detailed localization’ C, cytoplasm; CS, cytoskeleton; ER, endoplasmic reticulum; G, Golgi; EG: endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi; M, mitochondria; P, peroxisomes; N, nucleus; MPN: mitochondria, peroxisomes, nucleus; PM, plasma membrane (see table S4b in CITATIONet al., 2013). The remaining 151 sequences (Supplementary Table S3, ratLMPs) were then scanned through our pipeline in order to identify N-glycosylated LMPs. Seventy-three putative LMPs that can be N-glycosylated were identified for a total of 291 sequons (Supplementary Table S3, TMHMM_ratLMPs N-glyc sites and TMHMM_N-glyc ratLMPs); these represent 48% of the entire lysosomal membrane proteome. Using the Phobius algorithm, 75 N-glycosylated LMPs were identified, for a total of 275 sequons (Supplementary Table S3, Phobius_ratLMPs N-glyc sites and Phobius_N-glyc ratLMPs). It can be concluded that the relative abundance of putative N-glycoproteins in the lysosomal membrane is three times greater than in the tonoplast (CITATION). In this respect, the lysosomal membrane resembles the Arabidopsis plasma membrane more than the tonoplast, a feature confirmed when the distribution of sequons per glycoprotein is analyzed (CITATION). These results mark a major, perhaps unsuspected, difference between the vacuolar and lysosomal membranes. We then verified whether there is any marked difference in the abundance of N-glycosylation between the lysosomal and plasma membrane proteomes in rat liver cells. Proteomic analysis by CITATIONet al. (2011) listed 950 PMPs (Supplemental table 1A ‘Proteins identified from plasma membrane’ in CITATIONet al., 2011), among which 465 have at least one putative transmembrane domain. We have further refined the list of putative integral PMPs using the PANTHER gene ontology classification system; we have selected genes that are classified as ‘plasma membrane’ and excluded those classified as ‘ER’, ‘mitochondria’, or ‘lysosome’. This analysis restricted the number of rat PMPs to 137, here reported in Supplementary Table S4 (ratPMPs). Among this group of proteins, 87 can be N-glycosylated for a total of 296 sequons, identified using the TMHMM algorithm (Supplementary Table S4, TMHMM_ratPMPs N-glyc sites and TMHMM_N-glyc ratPMPs), thus representing 63% of the total. When the Phobius algorithm was used, 81 putative N-glycosylated proteins with 277 sequons were identified (Supplementary Table S4, Phobius_ratPMPs N-glyc sites and Phobius_N-glyc ratPMPs). The ratio between the percentages of putative N-glycosylated proteins in the rat plasma membrane and the lysosomal membrane is therefore 1.31 (63%/48%, CITATION) compared with the 2.88 ratio (45%/15.6%) between the Arabidopsis plasma membrane and tonoplast. The distribution of the number of sequons per polypeptide confirms that there is not a marked difference in N-glycosylation patterns between the two rat membranes, unlike what we observed in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Therefore, the low presence of N-glycosylation sites in the membrane proteins of the hydrolytic subcellular compartment relative to those of the plasma membrane is a feature of the model plant, not reflected in the model animal. To obtain further experimental support for the bioinformatics results, biochemical analysis of the N-glycosylation status of proteins in the different Arabidopsis membranes was performed. Vacuoles were isolated from protoplasts released by digestion of Arabidopsis rosette leaves. Microsomes were then prepared either from the purified vacuolar fraction or from whole protoplasts and were treated with Na2CO3 to release peripheral membrane proteins. Microsomes from the vacuolar fraction should thus be constituted by the tonoplast, whereas those from whole protoplasts should contain all membranes of the cell. Protein blots using antibodies against the tonoplast marker γ-TIP (CITATIONet al., 2003) or the ER markers BiP (CITATIONet al., 1997) and endoplasmin/grp94 (CITATIONet al., 2006) showed that in the Na2CO3-stripped vacuolar microsomes γ-TIP was highly enriched, whereas the ER markers were below our limit of detection (CITATION). Conversely, the two ER residents were clearly detected in the protoplast microsomal preparation. The tonoplast fraction was therefore only negligibly contaminated by membranes originating from the major compartment of the endomembrane system. To detect the occurrence of N-glycans on TMPs, protein blot was performed by incubation with ConA conjugated to peroxidase. ConA binds terminal α-d-mannosyl and α-d-glucosyl residues, mainly occurring in high-mannose, unmodified N-glycans (CITATION). Very few polypeptides were recognized by ConA in the tonoplast compared with those recognized in total microsomes (CITATION). This may indicate that very few TMPs are N-glycosylated or that the vast majority of TMP N-glycans are modified during traffic through the Golgi apparatus. To investigate these two possibilities, tonoplast microsomes were tested for the presence of modified N-glycans (complex glycans, cgly), using an anti-cgly antiserum specific for β1,2-linked xylose, a residue present in all cgly detectable in the Arabidopsis proteome (CITATION; CITATIONet al., 1989; CITATIONet al., 2004). Consistently, protein blot of Arabidopsis total leaf homogenates showed that no polypeptide was recognized by anti-cgly in knockout plants totally deficient in Golgi xylosyl- and fucosyltransferase activities (xylT–/fucT–) (CITATIONet al., 2004), but many polypeptides were detected in wild-type plant extracts (CITATION). The antiserum was therefore used to challenge subcellular fractions of wild-type protoplasts and vacuoles (CITATION; note that soluble and microsomal fractions derived from the same number of cells were analyzed). In both protoplasts and vacuoles, the vast majority of polypeptides recognized by the anti-cgly antiserum were in the soluble fraction, strongly suggesting that most intracellular glycoproteins with cgly are soluble proteins of the vacuolar lumen. A small number of microsomal proteins from protoplasts also reacted with the antiserum. Some of these were possibly minor contaminations from abundant soluble proteins, but others were relatively enriched in the Na2CO3-stripped microsomes. The patterns were very similar when microsomes were not stripped. Microsomes isolated from vacuoles did not give any signal, indicating that cgly are either absent or present in a very minor proportion in the tonoplast proteome. Even when an equal amount of protein was analyzed for each subcellular fraction and membranes were not stripped, the signal given by the tonoplast preparation was very low compared with that of protoplast microsomes (CITATION; the residual bands very probably reflect contaminations from soluble proteins, since no enrichment of a specific band was detectable). The tonoplast preparation is not contaminated by ER microsomes. Protoplasts from Arabidopsis leaves were used to isolate vacuoles. The isolated vacuoles or protoplast preparations (T) were then separated into microsomal (M) and soluble (S) fractions, in the presence (+) or absence (–) of Na2CO3. Equal amounts of protein were analyzed by SDS–PAGE and protein blot, using antisera against endoplasmin/grp94 (grp94), BiP, or γTIP. The vertical lines separate lanes rearranged from different parts of a single blot exposure. Numbers on the left indicate the positions of molecular mass markers, in kDa. N-Glycosylated proteins with high-mannose oligosaccharide chains are much less abundant in the tonoplast than in the total membrane fraction. Microsomal fractions (M) from Arabidopsis protoplasts or purified vacuoles were analyzed by SDS–PAGE and protein blot followed by incubation with concanavalin A conjugated to peroxidase. Numbers on the left indicate the positions of molecular mass markers, in kDa. The cgly serum does not detect polypeptides in the tonoplast preparation. In each panel, analysis was by SDS–PAGE and protein blot using anti-cgly serum. (A) Total proteins were extracted from leaves of wild-type (wt) or xylT–/fucT– Arabidopsis. Equal amounts of protein were analyzed. (B) Soluble (S) and microsomal (M) fractions were prepared from vacuoles or protoplasts in the presence (+) or absence (–) of Na2CO3. An equal proportion of each fraction, or a 10-fold dilution of each total unfractionated sample (T), was analyzed. (C) As in (B) but an equal amount of protein was analyzed for each fraction. In each panel, numbers on the left indicate the positions of molecular mass markers, in kDa. Taken together, the ConA-binding and anti-cgly assays confirm our in silico results, indicating a low frequency of N-glycosylated proteins in the tonoplast proteome. To obtain more detailed information on the subcellular localization of the microsomal proteins with cgly, microsomes prepared from Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts were fractionated on isopycnic sucrose gradients (CITATION). An intense peak of anti-cgly reactivity was coincident with the migration of the plasma membrane marker PIP2 (CITATION; compare A and C) and a minor peak in very light membrane fractions. In agreement with the results shown in CITATION, no peak was detected in the fractions containing the tonoplast marker γ-TIP (CITATION; compare A and D). When membranes were treated with Na2CO3, the general distribution of polypeptides recognized by anti-cgly along the gradient did not change markedly (CITATION). Analysis was also performed by microscopy. The tonoplast can be visualized by immunofluorescence microscopy on fixed and permeabilized plant cells using antisera against specific resident membrane proteins (see, for example, CITATIONet al., 2004; CITATIONet al., 2013). However, anti-cgly mainly decorated the plasma membrane and in part small circular subcellular structures, but almost no signal was present at the tonoplast (CITATION; the red arrows indicate the tonoplast). Subcellular fractionation and microscopy therefore confirmed that the tonoplast is specifically depleted of cgly and indicated that most cgly are at the plasma membrane. Most membrane proteins with complex glycans are in a microsomal fraction with higher density than the tonoplast. Microsomes were prepared from Arabidopsis leaves in the absence (A, C, D) or presence (B) of Na2CO3 and subjected to isopycnic sucrose gradient centrifugation. Analysis of each gradient fraction was by SDS–PAGE and protein blot using anti-cgly (A, B), anti-PIP (C), or anti-γTIP (D) sera. Numbers at the top indicate the fraction density. In each panel, numbers on the left indicate the positions of molecular mass markers, in kDa. The majority of membrane proteins with complex glycans are in the plasma membrane. (A) Protoplasts isolated from Arabidopsis cultured cells were fixed, permeabilized, and analyzed by immunofluorescence microscopy using anti-cgly antibody and AlexaFluor 488 goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody. As control, the anti-cgly antibody was omitted and incubation was only performed with AlexaFluor 488 goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody (u, z). Six Z-stacks (thickness: 2 µm) were collected using the Apotome system. a, d, g, l, o, r, anti-cgly/AlexaFluor 488 anti-rabbit IgG; u, AlexaFluor 488 goat anti-rabbit IgG; b, e, h, m, p, s, v, brightfield; c, f, i, n, q, t, z, merge. Red arrows point to the tonoplast. Scale bars=5 µm.
!~MM~! The following antisera and dilutions were used in protein blots: 1:2000 rabbit polyclonal anti-complex glycan (cgly) antiserum (CITATIONet al., 1989), 1:1000 chicken polyclonal anti-γTIP antiserum against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the C-terminal nine amino acids of Arabidopsis γ-tonoplast intrinsic protein (TIP) (CITATIONet al., 2003), 1:10 000 rabbit polyclonal anti-plasma membrane intrinsic protein 2 (PIP2) antiserum (CITATIONet al., 2003), 1:1000 rabbit polyclonal anti-BiP antiserum raised against a recombinant fusion between maltose-binding protein and amino acids 551–667 of tobacco binding protein (BiP) (CITATIONet al., 1997), 1:1000 rabbit polyclonal anti-endoplasmin antiserum (CITATIONet al., 2006), and 1:20 000 peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit or anti-chicken IgG (Invitrogen). For immunofluorescence microscopy, 1:1000 AlexaFluor 488 goat anti-rabbit (Invitrogen) was used as secondary antibody. Wild-type or XylT/FucT knockout (CITATIONet al., 2004) Arabidopsis thaliana plants, ecotype Columbia, were grown in sterile conditions on half-strength Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (Duchefa Biochemie) supplemented with 10g l–1 sucrose and 0.8% (w/v) phyto agar (Duchefa Biochemie) at 23 °C under a 16/8h light/dark cycle. Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia suspension-cultured T87 cells were grown as described (CITATIONet al., 2011). Leaves from 4- to 5-week-old plants were scratched on the underside with glass paper (P500) and digested for 90–120min in MCP (0.5M sorbitol, 1mM CaCl2, 10mM MES, brought to pH 5.6 using KOH) containing 1% Cellulase R10, 0.5% Macerozyme R10, and 0.04% BSA. The digestion mixes were collected on a 2ml 100% Percoll pH 6 cushion (0.5M sorbitol, 1mM CaCl2, 20mM MES, pH 6.0, dissolved in 100% Percoll; GE Healthcare) in a 50ml Falcon tube and centrifuged for 8min, 470 g, 20 °C. The supernatant was discarded and a step gradient was then set up as follows (from bottom to top—equal volumes of each step): (i) protoplasts in 40% Percoll pH 6; (ii) 30% Percoll pH 7.2 (0.5M sorbitol, 20mM HEPES dissolved in 30% Percoll, pH 7.2); and (iii) sorbitol buffer (0.4M sorbitol, 30mM K-gluconate, 20mM HEPES, pH 7.2 with imidazole). After centrifugation at 300 g, 8min, 20 °C, protoplasts were recovered at the 30% Percoll/sorbitol buffer interface and transferred into a 50ml Falcon tube. Lysis was performed by mixing with an equal volume of lysis buffer (0.2M sorbitol, 20mM EDTA, 10mM HEPES, 10% Ficoll, pH 8.0, 1mM DTT, 0.016% BSA, pre-warmed to 42 °C). Lysis was stopped after 10min by placing the tube on ice. The released vacuoles were purified using a second step gradient set up as follows (from bottom to top): (i) 5ml of lysate; (ii) 5ml of 1:1 lysis buffer:betaine buffer (0.4M betaine, 30mM K-gluconate, 1mM DTT, 0.1% BSA, 20mM HEPES, brought to pH 7.2 using 1M imidazole) supplemented with 10% BSA, 1M DTT; and (iii) betaine buffer. After centrifugation at 1500 g, 8min, 20 °C, vacuoles were recovered at the interface between the (ii) and (iii) cushions. Vacuoles were frozen in liquid N2 and stored at –70 °C. Purified vacuoles or intact protoplasts, containing the same amount of α-mannosidase activity, measured as described (CITATIONet al., 2011), were freeze-thawed three times, vigorously mixed by pipetting, and centrifuged at 2500 g for 10min at 4 °C. Recovered supernatants were placed in 0.5M sorbitol, 20mM HEPES pH 7.2, Complete protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche), and incubated for 20min in ice. To strip peripheral membrane proteins, supernatants were further treated with 0.1M Na2CO3. To enrich tonoplast or total microsomes, the samples were centrifuged for 1h, 100 000 g, 4 °C. Supernatants, containing vacuole or protoplast soluble fractions were recovered. Membrane pellets, containing tonoplast or total microsomes, were resuspended in 0.5M sorbitol, 20mM HEPES pH 7.2, using 1:10 volume with respect to the soluble fractions. An equal volume, or equal amount of proteins, of soluble or membrane fractions was analyzed by SDS–PAGE and protein blot on a nitrocellulose membrane (Perkin-Elmer), and incubated with appropriate antibodies and anti-rabbit or anti-chicken IgG–peroxidase conjugate (Pierce) For detection of proteins with high-mannose N-glycans, the protein blot was incubated with 3 µg ml–1 concanavalin A (ConA)–peroxidase conjugate (Sigma-Aldrich St. Louis, MO, USA) in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing 0.05% (v/v) Tween-20, 1mM CaCl2, 1mM MnCl2, and 1mM MgCl2 for 16h at 20 °C, according to the manufacturer’s protocols. Peroxidase activity can be detected using Super West Pico (Pierce) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Protein molecular weight markers (Fermentas) were used as SDS–PAGE molecular mass markers. For total protein extraction from wild-type or XylT/FucT knockout plants, Arabidopsis leaves (3–6 weeks old) were homogenized in ice-cold homogenization buffer (200mM NaCl, 1mM EDTA, 0.2% Triton X-100, 2% 2-mercaptoethanol, 100mM TRIS-Cl pH 7.8) supplemented with Complete protease inhibitor cocktail. After centrifugation at 5000 g, 10min, 4 °C, the resulting supernatant was considered as the total protein extract. Proteins were analyzed by SDS–PAGE and protein blot. Microsome subfractionation was performed according to CITATIONet al. (2005). Total microsomes were prepared as follows: A. thaliana leaf tissue was homogenized in a buffer containing 50mM TRIS-acetate (pH 7.5), 250mM sorbitol, 2mM EGTA, 2mM MgCl2, 2mM DTT supplemented with Complete protease inhibitor cocktail. The homogenate was filtered and centrifuged at 10 000 g for 10min at 4 °C. The supernatant (S10) was further centrifuged at 100 000 g (rav) in a Beckman SW55Ti rotor (Beckman Instruments) for 2h at 4 °C. The resulting pellet (P100), containing total microsomes, was resuspended in 10mM Tricine-KOH (pH 7.5), 1mM EGTA, 2mM MgCl2, 5% (w/w) sucrose, and was loaded on a sucrose density gradient [10.4ml, 15–45% (w/w) sucrose in 10mM Tricine-KOH (pH 7.5), 1mM EGTA, and 2mM MgCl2] and centrifuged at 77 000 g (rav) for 19h in a Beckman SW40 rotor. Twenty fractions of 0.55ml were collected. The precipitate at the bottom of the tube was solubilized with 550 μl of SDS–PAGE loading buffer. Equal volumes of each fraction and of the solubilized precipitate were analyzed by SDS–PAGE and protein blot. Protoplasts were prepared from 7-day-old cell culture as described (CITATIONet al., 2011). After the last wash in W5 buffer, protoplasts were fixed by resuspension in MaCa buffer [0.5M mannitol, 20mM CaCl2, and 0.1% (w/v) MES, pH 5.7] containing 4% (w/v) paraformaldehyde, for 2h at 20 °C. Immunofluorescence was performed as described (CITATIONet al., 2007). After immunolabeling, protoplasts were resuspended in ProLong Gold antifade reagent (Invitrogen-Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, USA) and visualized by epifluorescence microscopy using a Zeiss Axiovert 200 microscope (Carl-Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany), followed by the collection of optical sections using the Zeiss Apotome system and Axiovision 4.1 software. Figures were assembled using Adobe Photoshop software (Adobe Systems Incorporated, CA, USA). The goal of the entire procedure (pipeline) is the in silico identification of putative N-glycosylation signals in proteins already known to be localized on lysosomal, vacuolar, or plasma membranes. The procedure starts with the analysis of proteins identified by their TAIR or IPI IDs. Uniprot identifiers are also used to obtain information from external databases (e.g. Fasta formatted sequences or protein annotations). Conversions among identifiers are made through ‘programmatic’ access to the Uniprot database (http://www.uniprot.org/faq/28) using Ruby programming language scripts (https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/) or, as an alternative, using the Uniprot Mapping facility (http://www.uniprot.org/mapping/). The analysis procedure includes searching for N-glycosylation signals and the investigation of putative transmembrane regions and related sequence topology. Home-made scripts, in the Ruby programming language, have been written in order to automate the entire procedure. These scripts are used to link together successive steps of the bioinformatics analysis (pipeline) and guarantee compatibility of data formats between different steps. Protein annotations and data obtained during the analysis are progressively stored in a local database. An internal SQLite database (http://www.sqlite.org/) has been created. The Database Management System is used for data access and querying by means of the SQL language (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL). Putative transmembrane regions and sequence membrane topology are investigated using local installations of two alternative tools, for cross-validation: TMHMM (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TMHMM/) and Phobius (http://phobius.sbc.su.se/). Sequons are searched by means of a local installation of the NetNGlyc software (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetNGlyc/). The algorithm indicates as putative N-glycosylation sites only signals localized in the extracytoplasmic side(s) of the transmembrane proteins, and positioned at minimal distances of 12 and 14 residues, after the end and before the beginning of a transmembrane segment, respectively.
