!~ABS~! The plant plasma membrane is the interface between the cell and its environment undertaking a range of important functions related to transport, signaling, cell wall biosynthesis, and secretion. Multiple proteomic studies have attempted to capture the diversity of proteins in the plasma membrane using biochemical fractionation techniques. In this study, two-phase partitioning was combined with free-flow electrophoresis to produce a population of highly purified plasma membrane vesicles that were subsequently characterized by tandem mass spectroscopy. This combined high-quality plasma membrane isolation technique produced a reproducible proteomic library of over 1000 proteins with an extended dynamic range including plasma membrane-associated proteins. The approach enabled the detection of a number of putative plasma membrane proteins not previously identified by other studies, including peripheral membrane proteins. Utilizing multiple data sources, we developed a PM-confidence score to provide a value indicating association to the plasma membrane. This study highlights over 700 proteins that, while seemingly abundant at the plasma membrane, are mostly unstudied. To validate this data set, we selected 14 candidates and transiently localized 13 to the plasma membrane using a fluorescent tag. Given the importance of the plasma membrane, this data set provides a valuable tool to further investigate important proteins. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD001795.
!~RES~! Purification of PM by 2PP has been extensively employed in plants to provide enriched PM fractions for downstream analyses.CITATION However, the success of the technique can be highly variable and result in contaminated membrane fractions. The utilization of FFE as an extra purification strategy for organelles and vesicles has been well established.CITATION Consequently, we sought to exploit the capacity of FFE to isolate high purity PM fractions from photosynthetic plant material. Liquid-culture grown Arabidopsis seedlings were harvested, and PMs were enriched by 2PP. These fractions were then subjected to further purification by FFE. The majority of PM vesicles seem to migrate as an 8 to 10 fraction peak between fractions 50 and 65 when using the FFE conditions outlined in this study (CITATIONCITATION). This is appreciably further toward the cathode than other, potentially contaminating, organelles,CITATION meaning FFE can further purify PM vesicles isolated by 2PP. To confirm that this 10-fraction peak corresponded to PM vesicles, antibodies raised against the PM marker H+-ATPase (AHA1) were used to profile post-FFE fractions (CITATIONCITATIONA). The ability of the FFE to separate contaminating membranes from the PM after 2PP was assessed using antibodies raised against plastid (PsbA), mitochondria (VDAC-1), vacuole (V-PPase), ER (BiP2, CRT), and cytosol (UGPase, cFBPase) marker proteins. PM vesicles were clearly enriched by 2PP, and qualitatively, FFE produced minimal further enrichment as assessed by AHA1. Other organelle markers were reduced in the FFE fractions. Mitochondrial and vacuolar membranes (VDAC1 and V-PPase) were barely detectable in the PM peak after FFE. Plastid membranes were detected beyond the anodic edge of the main PM peak (CITATIONCITATIONA), indicating efficient removal of plastidic contaminants during electrophoresis. In contrast, ER (BIP2 and CRT) and cytosolic (UGPase and cFBPase) proteins that persisted through 2PP were not substantially removed from PM vesicles during FFE (CITATIONCITATIONB). PM vesicles from FFE fractions of two independent biological replicates comprising the apex of the PM peak, as defined by the AHA marker (CITATIONCITATIONA), were collected and harvested by ultracentrifugation (Figure S-1). A total of two adjacent fractions (53 and 54) from the first replicate (AtPM-1) and 2 pools of three fractions (51, 52, 53 and 54, 55, 56) from the second replicate (AtPM-2) were digested overnight with trypsin and analyzed by LC–MS/MS. Resultant spectral data from LC–MS/MS analyses of fractions were exported and analyzed using the Mascot search engine against Arabidopsis proteins. A strict approach to data matching was employed where only peptides with ions scores above the p < 0.05 cutoff were accepted, and a bold red peptide match was required for each protein match. Given these criteria, only a single peptide was necessary for a protein match in each replicate. For the experiment AtPM-1, a total of 1269 proteins were identified in fraction 53 (AtPM-1a) and 898 proteins in fraction 54 (AtPM-1b), while for experiment AtPM-2, a total of 782 proteins were identified in pooled fractions 51–53 (AtPM-2a) and 1151 proteins in pooled fractions 54–56 (AtPM-2b). Details of matched peptide data for the four samples analyzed by LC–MS/MS are outlined in Table S-1. Data were manually curated to remove redundant protein matches. This resulted in the identification of 1416 (experiment AtPM-1) and 1316 (experiment AtPM-2) nonredundant protein matches in each of the two analyses. The number of proteins identified in both experiments was 1029, which represents the protein set enriched by FFE (Figure S-1), referred to as the FFE PM proteome. This combined set of 1029 was manually curated to ensure consistency between redundant protein matches between the four replicates (Table S-2). The redundant protein matches encompass proteins matched with identical peptides outlined in Table S-1. These proteins represent valid protein matches, many of them encoded by alternatively spliced transcripts (Table S-3). To assist in the classification of proteins identified in the FFE PM proteome (1029 proteins), a PM confidence score was developed based on gene ontologies, subcellular localizations, gene expression, and manual curation. Gene expression normalization was performed by dividing the protein abundance (spectral counts, SPC) by its normalized transcript level derived from data from 7-day-old wild type Arabidopsis seedlings.CITATION While individual transcript and protein levels may only be weakly correlated, high transcript levels are expected to roughly correlate with higher protein presence and detection. Protein abundance was ranked from most to least abundant, before and after normalization to the transcript level of the corresponding gene. Subtraction of the “after-normalization” rank from the “before-normalization” rank on the protein abundance list yielded a Δrank value. High Δrank values revealed proteins disproportionately enriched in the FFE PM proteome compared to transcript abundance. After gene expression normalization, proteins whose Δrank values were most increased tended to be low-abundance proteins (Table S-4). The top 10% Δrank proteins had an average of six spectral counts. These likely represent proteins that were enriched by the purification methods, that is, proteins that are localized to the PM. In contrast, the highly abundant and highly expressed family of H+ATPases (AHAs), which had an average of 1143 total SPCs, was largely unaffected by gene expression normalization (Table S-4). Proteins targeted to the secretory pathway, either by transmembrane domains or N-terminal signal sequences, are expected to be well represented in the FFE PM proteome. Indeed, after gene expression normalization, 34% of proteins in the top 10% Δrank list contained a transmembrane domain, while only a single contaminating ribosomal protein was found in the top 10% Δrank list (CITATIONCITATION). Conversely, ribosomal proteins comprised 46% of the bottom 10% Δrank, indicating that relative to their high expression level, they were depleted by the combination of 2PP and FFE (CITATIONCITATION). Since PM proteins only represent a subset of proteins encoded by a seedling transcriptome, changes in ranked abundance after normalization suggest an incongruity between transcript and protein abundance after PM purification. The approach both highlights PM proteins and de-emphasizes contaminants. In addition to Δrank after gene expression normalization, SUBcellular Arabidopsis database (SUBA) consensus localization scoresCITATION and the gene ontology (GO) cellular component annotation from TAIRCITATION were also included in calculation of the PM confidence score. SUBA and GO categories were assigned a value between 1 and 10. A minimum PM-confidence score of 1 was assigned to annotations unrelated to PM, while a maximum score of 10 was assigned to annotated PM-associated proteins (Table S-4). Values from 1 to 10 were also used to generate PM-confidence scores for gene expression Δrank (i.e., the top 10% of the Δrank list were given a score of 10, the next 10% were given a score of 9, and so on). These three PM confidence scores from the different methods were averaged to generate a confidence score for each protein. The FFE PM proteome contains 91 annotated ribosomal proteins,CITATION with an average confidence score of 1.8, while the 72 identified receptor-like kinasesCITATION had an average PM-confidence score of 8.6 (Table S-4). Thus, receptor-like kinases, which are likely PM-localized, had a high average PM-confidence score, while ribosomal proteins, which are likely PM proteome contaminants, had low average PM-confidence scores. Therefore, the PM-confidence score effectively separated potential contaminants from genuine PM proteins (CITATIONCITATION, Table S-4). Proteins in the post-FFE PM proteome were assigned to functional and subcellular categories using data from MapManCITATION and SUBACITATION in combination with the calculated PM-confidence scores (Table S-2). After manual curation, a total of 449 proteins (44%) could be confidently assigned as PM proteins (CITATIONCITATIONA). Proteins derived from contaminating organelles constituted 32% (328 proteins) of the 1029 proteins identified. A collection of 155 proteins were assigned as having functional associations to the PM and included proteins assigned as vesicle trafficking, cell organization, chaperones, 14–3–3 proteins, and extracellular proteins. Collectively, these proteins comprised 15% of the FFE PM proteome. Lastly, a total of 97 proteins (9%) were unable to be assigned a clear function or subcellular location but many contained high PM-confidence scores. This group was assigned “unclear”, indicating an unclear function or subcellular location within the cell. Given the PM-enriched nature of the preparation, many likely represent authentic PM-associated proteins. The contribution of contaminants to a proteome is more accurately assessed when some measure of relative abundance is taken into account. Organelle distribution in the FFE PM proteome was thus also estimated using average spectral counts (CITATIONCITATIONB). Although this approach only resulted in a marginal increase in the proportion of proteins assigned to the PM (46%), it significantly reduced the contribution of contaminants to less than a fifth of the proteome (19%). This difference confirms that proteins from contaminating organelles tend to be reduced in abundance in the post-FFE PM fractions. PM-associated proteins were enriched, from 15–31%, when analyzed by relative abundance in the samples. Proteins contributing to this increase categorized to the cell organization category including actin, tubulin, and annexins. The contribution of proteins allocated as “unclear” was reduced to 4%, suggesting these either originate from contaminating membranes or are low abundance PM proteins. A total of 30 separate studies have sought to purify and characterize the PM proteome from Arabidopsis;CITATION however, this study represents the first PM proteome utilizing FFE as an orthogonal purification strategy.CITATION Of the 1029 proteins, a total of 97 were allocated as an unclear location or category (CITATION). Interestingly, 39 of these proteins had not previously been identified in any subcellular proteome, and many had been assigned a high PM-confidence score. While only contributing about 4% of the total proteins identified, this is a noteworthy observation considering that over 126 targeted proteomes have been characterized in Arabidopsis, which cumulatively has identified nearly 8000 proteins.CITATION Consequently, we selected a number of candidates from the proteome for localization using fluorescent proteins (FP). These candidates were relatively abundant in our preparations based on SPC, had a range of PM confidence scores, and had either not been previously localized to the PM or had contradictory subcellular assignments from other studies. The gene products were cloned into the pBullet-pm vectorsCITATION to enable either C- or N-terminal yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) colocalization, and fusion proteins were localized using particle bombardment and confocal microscopy (CITATIONCITATION, CITATIONCITATION). A total of 14 candidates were selected; however, only 13 successfully expressed the fluorescent marker (CITATIONCITATION). Those tagged with C-terminal YFP all showed some colocalization with the PM marker protein PIP2A (CITATIONCITATIONa–m). Localization to the PM was assessed by light microscopy using 0.75 M mannitol,CITATION which resulted in shrinkage of the protoplast and detachment of the PM from the cell wall. In addition, Hechtian strands, representing areas of adhesion between the PM (and associated cytosol) and the cell wall, were consistently visible with 10 of the constructs (CITATIONCITATION). For proteins tagged with N-terminal YFP, four out of 13 colocalized with the PM marker (CITATIONCITATIONn–z). The other nine N-terminal fusions did not show any signal, which could be attributed to the presence of a predicted N-terminal signal sequence or lipid modification (CITATIONCITATION). An examination of the structure of these localized proteins reveals that candidates include predicted membrane proteins with single transmembrane domains such as uncharacterized receptor-like kinases (CITATIONCITATIONb,e,m), transporters (CITATIONCITATIONg), and multipass proteins of unknown function (CITATIONCITATIONd,i,j). Finally, although some of these PM candidates contained no predicted transmembrane domain, they colocalized successfully with the PM marker (CITATIONCITATIONa,c,f,h,k,l). Overall, the transient localization demonstrates that the combination of 2PP coupled to FFE identified many unknown bone fide PM-localized proteins.
!~MM~! For the characterization of the PM by FFE, 50 mg batches of seeds from Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. accession Columbia (Col-0) were surface-sterilized by rinsing in 96% ethanol for 1 min, followed by a 5 min rinse with a sterilization solution (50% household bleach, 0.1% Tween-20) and five washes with sterile distilled water, under a sterile hood. Imbibed seeds were stratified at 4 °C for 3 days. Each batch of seeds was then inoculated in an Erlenmeyer flask (2 L volume) containing 300 mL of growth medium (half-strength MS salts including vitamins, 1% sucrose, 1 mM MES, brought to pH 5.9 with potassium hydroxide and autoclaved). For each experiment, six flasks were incubated at 25 °C in an orbital shaker at 110 rpm for 7 days with a photoperiod of 16 h light/8 h dark. Plantlets grown in liquid medium were drained with a strainer, rinsed with distilled water, and gently blotted dry. All the subsequent procedures were carried out on ice. Eighty grams of fresh material was homogenized with 240 mL of homogenization buffer (100 mM Hepes pH 7.5, 0.2% N-Z-amine B, 250 mM sorbitol, 10% Glycerol, 5 mM EDTA free acid, 5 mM ascorbic acid, 0.6% PVP K-25, 1 mM DTT) by a blender (PHD, Omni International, USA). Anti-protease and antiphosphatase tablets (Complete protease inhibitor cocktail and PhosSTOP phosphatase inhibitor cocktail, Roche) were included in the buffer according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The homogenate was filtered through Miracloth (Millipore) and centrifuged at 10 000 g for 15 min at 4 °C to remove cell debris. The supernatant was filtered through a 10 μm nylon mesh and centrifuged at 85 000 g for 1 h at 4 °C to collect microsomes. Pellet was resuspended in 28 mL of resuspension buffer (5 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.8, 0.33 M sucrose, 3 mM KCl, 0.1 mM EDTA) with the addition of anti-protease and anti-phosphatase tablets. An aliquot of the total microsomal preparation (Pre2PP) was retained. Two-phase partitioningCITATION was carried out by loading 7 mL of microsomes in tubes containing 21 g of phases (6% dextran, 6% PEG 3350, 250 mM sucrose, 5 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.8, 4 mM potassium chloride, 1 mM DTT, 50 μM EDTA). Two rounds of phase partitioning were performed. The PM-enriched upper phases were then diluted with 150 mL of resuspension buffer and centrifuged at 85 000 g for 1 h at 4 °C. The pellet was dissolved in 3 mL of resuspension buffer and stored on ice. An aliquot of the preparation (Post-2PP) was retained and the rest processed by FFE. The 2PP yielded 250–500 mg of protein from 80–100 g of Arabidopsis seedlings (fresh weight). These enriched plant membranes samples were separated by FFE based on previous approachesCITATION with slight modifications. The electrophoresis was performed using continuous zone electrophoresis-FFE (ZE-FFE) using a FFE System (BD Diagnostics). The setup employed the following conditions: 0.5 mm spacers for the separation chamber with 0.8 mm filter strips; the system was run in a horizontal position and cooled to 8 °C. For Arabidopsis PM purifications, buffers were prepared as previously outlined.CITATION Separation was achieved using 700 V, which resulted in a current of 105–115 mA. The media injection speed was 200 mL h–1, and samples were injected at 1500 μL h–1. Fractions were collected in precooled 2 mL 96-well plates. Sample separation and system performance was assessed by monitoring protein distribution in the 96-well plates by measuring absorbance at 280 nm with a SpectraMax Plus384 (Molecular Devices) microplate reader. Fractions corresponding to the PM peak were recovered by centrifugation at 100 000g for 1 h at 4 °C using a Beckman Coulter ultracentrifuge and a Type 70.1 Ti rotor. Pellets were resuspended in 10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5) and protein yield estimated using the Coomassie Plus (Bradford) Protein Assay (Thermo Scientific). Aliquots were either immediately digested with trypsin for analysis by MS or were kept at −80 °C until required. Protein samples (2–5 μg) from the purification process, and FFE fractions were separated on 10% NuPAGE Bis-Tris Precast Gels (Life Technologies). Proteins were transferred to Hybond ECL nitrocellulose membranes (GE Healthcare) using a Criterion Blotter (Bio-Rad) at 300 mA for 2 h at 4 °C. The antibodies employed were Anti-Calreticulin (CRT1, Abcam, ab2907); Anti-plasma membrane H+-ATPase (AHA1, Agrisera, AS07 260); Anti-D1 protein of PSII (PsbA, Agrisera, AS05 084); Anti-Voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein 1 (VDAC1, Agrisera, AS07 212); and Anti-cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (cFBPase, Agrisera, AS04 043). All dilutions for primary antibodies were undertaken according to instructions by the manufacturer. Detection was performed using a peroxidase-linked secondary antibody Anti-Rabbit IgG (Sigma-Aldrich) diluted 1:20 000 and using SuperSignal West Dura Extended Duration Substrate (Thermo Scientific). Images were captured using a BioSpectrum Imaging System (UVP). All clones for the colocalization experiments of FFE PM proteome candidate proteins were synthesized based on TAIR10 CDS models containing attB Gateway sites (forward: 5′-GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTTCACC-3′ and reverse: 5′-GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTC-3′) and without stop codons. Gateway entry clones were created using synthesized genes and pDONR221-f1CITATION after a BP reaction with Gateway BP Clonase II Enzyme Mix (Life Technologies) following the manufacture’s protocol. Expression clones were created with the entry clones and pBullet destination vectors pBullet-pm-c and pBullet-pm-nCITATION using the Gateway LR Clonase II enzyme mix (Life Technologies) following manufacture’s protocol. Particle bombardment was performed based on previously described procedures.CITATION About 16–24 h after bombardments, the onion epidermal cells were visualized under a Zeiss LSM 710 (Carl Zeiss) following previously outlined methods.CITATION Plasmolysis of cells was induced using 0.75 M mannitol treatment for 10 min. Image analysis and processing (scale bar, brightness, and contrast) were performed using the ImageJ software (Version 1.6r).CITATION Samples to be analyzed by MS (equivalent to 5 μg of protein) were digested with trypsin (1:10 w/w) overnight at 37 °C in 10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5) and 50% methanol.CITATION Resultant tryptic peptides were purified and concentrated using C18 Ultra-Micro TipColumns (Harvard Apparatus). Digested samples (approximately 1 ug) were analyzed by LC–MS/MS by nano-ESI-Q-TOF (TripleTOF 5600 System, AB SCIEX) coupled to an Eksigent nano LC system (AB Sciex). Peptide samples were injected onto a Pepmap100 μ-guard column (Dionex-LC Packings, Sunnyvale, CA) via a Famos Autosampler (Dionex-LC Packings, Sunnyvale, CA) and washed for 10 min with Buffer A (2% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid) flowing at 15 μL/min. Peptides were eluted onto an Acclaim Pepmap100 C18 column (75 μm × 150 mm, 300 nL/min flow rate; Dionex-LC Packings) and into the TripleTOF 5600 via a gradient consisting of initial starting condition of 5% buffer B (98% acetonitrile, 0.1% formic acid) increasing B to 35% B over 60 min. Subsequently, B was increased to 90% over 3 min and held for 15 min followed by a ramp back down to 5% B over 3 min where it was held for 15 min to re-equilibrate the column to original conditions. Peptides were introduced to the mass spectrometer from the LC using a Nanospray III source (AB SCIEX) with a nanotip emitter (New Objective, Woburn, MA) operating in positive-ion mode (2400 V). The data were acquired with Analyst TF 1.5.1 operating in information dependent acquisition (IDA) mode, whereby after a 250 ms scan, the 20 most intense ions (charge states 2–5) within 400–1600 m/z mass range above a threshold of 150 counts were selected for MS/MS analysis. MS/MS spectra were collected using TOF resolution mode: high resolution with the quadrupole set to UNIT resolution and rolling collision energy to optimize fragmentation. MS/MS spectra were scanned from 100–1600 m/z and were collected for a total accumulation time of 50 ms. Selected precursor ions were excluded for 16 s following MS/MS acquisition. The raw data were processed with the ProteinPilot Software package v.4.0 (AB Sciex, Foster City, CA) and matched with the Paragon AlgorithmCITATION against the Arabidopsis protein set (TAIR10) containing contaminants (keratin, trypsin, BSA) and comprised 35 397 total sequences comprising 14 487 047 residues. The Paragon Method employed standard settings with the instrument set as “TripleTOF 5600” resulting in initial search parameters of 0.05 Da (MS) and 0.1 Da (MS/MS). The detected protein threshold was set at 99% (Unused ProtScore [Conf] > 2.0) and a Thorough ID was applied for the search effort. The data processing and matching by ProteinPilot results in recalibration of data, which were subsequently exported as MGF Peaklist(s) for high confidence data matching. The recalibrated data were interrogated with the Mascot search engine version 2.3.02 (Matrix Science) with a peptide tolerance of ±50 ppm and MS/MS tolerance of ±0.1 Da; variable modification was oxidation (M); up to one missed cleavage for trypsin; and the instrument type was set to ESI-QUAD-TOF. Searches were performed against Arabidopsis proteins (TAIR10 database containing contaminants) as detailed above. A false discovery rate and ions score or expected cutoff were calculated for each experiment using the Decoy feature of Mascot on the MS/MS ions search interface. A significance threshold corresponding to a false discovery rate of ≤5% (p < 0.05) was used to determine the ‘ions score or expect cutoff’ for peptide matches. As a result, ‘ions score or expect cutoff’ values of 29 (AtPM-1a), 28 (AtPM-1b), 27 (AtPM-2a), and 28 (AtPM-2b) were used. Ions score is −10 log(P), where P is the probability that the observed match is a random event. Ions scores greater than or equal to those stated indicate identity or extensive homology (p < 0.05). The MS proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange ConsortiumCITATION via the PRIDE partner repositoryCITATION with the data set identifier PXD001795 and 10.6019/PXD001795. For each FFE fraction, all spectral counts (total high confidence peptide matches) assigned to each unique, nonredundant protein were summed and then expressed as a percentage of the total number of spectral counts in that fraction. For the FFE PM proteome, proteins were rejected if they had fewer than five SPCs summed across all fractions used to define AtPM-1 and AtPM-2, as low SPCs tend to be highly variable.CITATION To consolidate SPCs from different FFE fractions, total %SPC was calculated by summing the SPCs for each protein across all PM FFE fractions used to define AtPM-1 and AtPM-2, then calculating %SPC using the summed SPC for all proteins in all fractions as the denominator. These percentages were then averaged across biological replicates, giving the total %SPC for the PM proteome. Proteins were annotated using the GO Plant Slim annotations from TAIRCITATION and SUBA consensus subcellular localization.CITATION The data were also manually compared to various published data sets including proteins detected in previously generated Arabidopsis PM proteomes;CITATION predicted GPI anchored,CITATION palmitoylated,CITATION or myristoylated proteins;CITATION proteins associated with the cell wall,CITATION plasmodesmata (PD),CITATION or detergent resistant membranes (DRM);CITATION proteins potentially, or known to be, involved in cellulose synthesis/deposition;CITATION and proteins belonging to certain large protein groups such as the receptor-like kinases (RLKs),CITATION ABC transporters,CITATION and ribosomal proteins.CITATION Additionally, the presence of protein transmembrane domains or an N-terminal signal sequence was predicted using the transmembrane hidden Markov model (TMHMM) prediction algorithm.CITATION Protein abundances were normalized using gene expression level. The Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC)-Array database of microarray experiments was searched to find suitable expression data.CITATION The microarray data selected were generated using plants from comparable growth conditions and sampling times.CITATION The data from three biological replicates were retrieved, and expression levels were averaged for genes expressed in two or more replicates. The expression of each gene was converted to a %expression (%exp) using the summed expression of all genes in the array as the denominator. Protein abundance was normalized by dividing protein %SPC by its %exp. The change in ranked abundance (ΔRank) of each protein after normalization was calculated by subtracting the rank of the protein after normalization from the rank before normalization. The proteins with the highest or lowest ΔRank were assessed to determine the effect of the gene expression normalization. A PM-confidence score was calculated for each protein by averaging three scores assigned in each applicable annotation category (SUBA consensus, GO cellular component, and gene expression normalization). For SUBA consensus,CITATION proteins scored a 10 if they were annotated as PM localized only, a 5 if annotated as PM plus some other annotation, and a 1 if not annotated as PM. Similarly for GO annotations,CITATION proteins with only a PM annotation were given a 10, those with a PM annotation and one or two other cellular component annotations were given an 8, those with a PM annotation and three or more other cellular component annotation were given a 3, and those without any PM annotations were given a 1. For the gene expression comparison, proteins moving the furthest up in rank after gene expression normalization (high ΔRank) were given a value of 10, those moving the furthest down in rank were given a 1, and intermediate values were given intermediate scores. In all cases, confidence scores were not affected when a protein was not annotated or detected by one of these methods.
