!~ABS~! Plastid RPS5 affects proteins involved in photosynthesis and translation machinery and mediates cold stress tolerance in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! In an effort to identify genes involved in chloroplast development and pigment synthesis, we screened an EMS-mutagenized M2 population for mutants with abnormal leaf color. This screen uncovered a pale yellow inner leaf color mutant, rps5, whose phenotype was controlled by a single nuclear recessive gene. In comparison with wild-type plants, this mutant had pale yellow inner young leaves (CITATION). The yellow color was distinct at the seedling stage and gradually became pale green during plant growth. In addition, a delay of 2 days in first true leaf emergence in the mutant plants was observed. Molecular cloning of rps5. (A) Growth phenotype of wild-type and rps5 mutant plants at 20 and 40 days old, respectively. Scale bars=1cm. (B) Positional cloning of rps5. Homozygous rps5 F2 seedlings from a total of 1258 plants were used for fine mapping. (C) RPS5 gene structure and the locations of the missense mutation for rps5 and T-DNA insertion for Salk_095863. Exons and introns are shown as solid boxes and lines, respectively. The T-DNA insertion is indicated with a triangle and the single nucleotide change in rps5 is indicated with a vertical arrow. (D) Complementation of the rps5 mutant. The rps5 phenotype was complemented with RPS5 cDNA (35S:RPS5) or genomic DNA (RPS5:RPS5). Plants were 4 weeks old. (E, F) Expression of RPS5 in wild-type and rps5 plants detected by semi-quantitative RT-PCR and qRT-PCR, respectively. Data represent means±SD from three biological replicates with three technical repeats. (This figure is available in colour at JXB online.) It is well established that pale green leaves are associated with impaired photosynthetic performance, which subsequently affects plant growth and development (CITATIONet al., 2012; CITATIONet al., 2012). Consistent with this, the total chlorophyll and carotenoid levels were significantly lower in rps5 than those in the wild-type plants (Supplementary Figure S2). The mature rps5 mutant plants had a reduced growth rate and were much smaller than wild-type plants (CITATION). To isolate the gene responsible for rps5, a map-based cloning strategy was employed following the generation of an F2 mapping population by crossing rps5 in Columbia ecotype with wild-type in Landsberg erecta background. A total of 1258 homozygous rps5 mutant plants were selected and used for fine mapping. The rps5 locus was mapped to the long arm of chromosome 2 between BACs T21L14 and T29F13 using simple sequence length polymorphism markers from the TAIR database and Arabidopsis Mapping Platform, and further narrowed to BAC clone T1B8 with two co-segregation markers (CITATION). Thirteen candidate genes between the 14.30Mb and 14.32Mb regions on chromosome 2 from the rps5 mutant were sequenced. A missense mutation was found in At2g33800 due to a G to A base substitution in the first exon in rps5, resulting in an amino acid Gly to Glu change (CITATION). At2g33800 encodes a RP S5 family protein (RPS5). Thus, the mutant was named as rps5. To determine whether this missense mutation in RPS5 was responsible for the mutant phenotype of rps5, a complementation test was performed in rps5 using the wild-type RPS5 cDNA under control of the cauliﬂower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Over 20 positive transgenic lines overexpressing RPS5 were obtained. RPS5 restored the rps5 mutant defects and the transgenic lines showed a completely wild-type phenotype (CITATION). To further validate the cloned gene, we also performed a complementation test using the genomic DNA fragment containing the wild-type RPS5 coding region and the associated flanking sequences. The genomic DNA construct was introduced into the rps5 mutant. Again, the positive transgenic lines with endogenous promoter also displayed the wild-type phenotype (CITATION). These results indicated that RPS5 was responsible for the mutant phenotypes. To determine whether the point mutation in rps5 affected the transcript level of RPS5, its expression in 4-week-old plants was analyzed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR (CITATION) and qRT-PCR (CITATION). A Salk_095863 line that carries a T-DNA insertion in the 5ʹ-UTR of RPS5 (CITATION) was also included. The Salk_095863 mutant showed growth and developmental defects, with smaller plants than rps5 (Supplementary Figure S3), showing allele variation. Interestingly, the expression analyses revealed that the transcript level of RPS5 in rps5 was decreased in comparison with wild-type plants, although rps5 was a missense mutation. Missense mutations have also been reported to affect gene expression in other studies (CITATIONet al., 2010; CITATIONet al., 2015). As expected, the Salk_095863 line exhibited low transcript levels. RPS5 is a component of the chloroplast ribosome 30S small subunit (CITATIONet al., 2000). The molecular mass of RPS5 mature protein was 32.6 kD. A sequence similarity search showed that only one RPS5 gene orthologous to the Escherichia coli S5 protein gene existed in the Arabidopsis genome (Supplementary Table S2). Interestingly, the N-terminal region of RPS5 proteins was highly conserved among plants and bacterial species (CITATION). The secondary structure for the N-terminal sequence and a three-dimensional 3D structure model for RPS5 protein were constructed using the Phyre2 server (http://www.sbg.bio.ic.ac.uk/phyre2/html/page.cgi?id=index; CITATION). The predicted secondary structure revealed that the amino acid substitution of RPS5 from rps5 was located in the turn element between two beta strand sheets (CITATION). We also predicted the 3D structures of RPS5 from wild-type and mutant plants using the Phyre2 server. The same 3D structures were observed (Supplementary Figure S4). One explanation for this result is that the software prediction was based on published data and the mutant site might not have been analyzed. Partial sequence alignment, secondary structure prediction, and subcellular localization of RPS5. (A) N-terminal domain sequence alignment of RPS5 from Arabidopsis (A. thaliana, AEC08888), rice (Oryza sativa, NP_001050474), maize (Zea mays, NP_001150762), potato (Solanum tuberosum, XP_006347020), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum, XP_004232896), Methanococcus vannielii (P14036), Chlamydia trachomatis (P0A4C8), Shigella flexneri (P0A7W6), and Cyanophora paradoxa (P23402). The vertical arrow indicates the mutation site. (B) Predicted secondary structure of the RPS5 N-terminal domain. The vertical arrow indicates the Glu substitution site in the mutant protein. (C) Wild-type RPS5 (top) and mutant rps5 (bottom) are localized in chloroplasts of 4-week-old tobacco leaves transiently expressing GFP fusion proteins. Bars=25 µm. (This figure is available in colour at JXB online.) RPS5 protein was predicted to be localized in chloroplasts (http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/TargetP/; CITATIONet al., 2007). To validate this, we investigated the subcellular location of RPS5 by transiently expressing the RPS5-GFP construct in tobacco leaves. The fusion protein signal was monitored by confocal microscopy. Merging the chlorophyll autoﬂuorescence and green ﬂuorescence showed that the signals were clearly observed in chloroplasts (CITATION), consistent with the previous indication of a chloroplast thylakoid membrane location in a chloroplast subproteome analysis (CITATIONet al., 2004). Plastid localization can be altered by single amino acid changes (CITATIONet al., 2012). We investigated whether the single amino acid substitution of RPS5 could affect the localization of RPS5. The rps5-GFP construct was infiltrated into tobacco leaves and expression of the fusion protein was examined. The signal pattern of rps5-GFP fusion protein was identical to that of RPS5-GFP (CITATION). These results showed that the RPS5 mutation did not alter the subcellular location of the protein. To investigate whether mutation in the plastid RPS5 would impair chloroplast 16S rRNA processing, we initially examined the pattern of total RNA by running denaturing agarose gels and staining them with ethidium bromide. As shown in CITATION, chloroplast 16S rRNA was decreased in the rps5 and Salk_095863 mutants relative to wild-type plants. The reduction could be rescued by overexpressing RPS5 in the rps5 mutant plants. These results indicated that RPS5 had an effect on 16S rRNA processing. Chloroplast rRNA accumulation and processing in wild-type (WT), mutant lines (rps5 and Salk_095863), and a complementation RPS5-overexpressing line (35S:RPS5). (A) rRNA accumulation pattern in an ethidium bromide-stained gel. The mutant lines had reduced levels of 16S rRNA, identified based on CITATIONet al. (2014) and CITATIONet al. (2008). (B) Schematic diagram of the chloroplast rrn operon in Arabidopsis. The probes used for northern blot analysis are marked by black lines under the operon with asterisks. (C) Northern blot analysis of chloroplast 4.5S, 5S, 16S, 23S, and cytoplasmic18S rRNAs. Total RNA (3 µg) from 4-week-old leaves was used for northern blot experiments. Equal loading controls for northern blot analysis are shown in Supplementary Figure S5. (D) Quantification of the mature bands in C using ImageJ (http://www.di.uq.edu.au/sparqimagejblots). Asterisks in 16S indicate significant differences (p<0.05). Plastid rRNAs include 23S, 16S, 5S, and 4.5S, which form part of the chloroplast rrn operon (CITATION) (CITATIONet al., 2014; CITATIONet al., 2008). These rRNAs are transcribed to yield large RNA precursors that are finally processed to mature rRNAs by a series of processing steps (CITATIONet al., 1994). To see whether RPS5 mutation affected chloroplast rRNA processing, the plastid rRNA accumulation patterns were analyzed in detail by RNA gel blots using gene-speciﬁc probes (CITATION). No signiﬁcant differences in the abundance of 4.5S and 5S sRNA were observed between rps5 or Salk_095863 and wild-type plants (CITATION, D). In agreement with the results from the ethidium bromide-stained denaturing agarose gels (CITATION), the quantity of mature 16S rRNA in the rps5 and Salk_095863 mutants was dramatically reduced to 65% and 50%, respectively, in comparison with the wild-type control (CITATION), whereas the 16S rRNA 1.9kb precursors were increased in the mutant plants (CITATION). The 16S rRNA processing deficiency in rps5 was rescued by overexpression of RPS5 (CITATION, D). In addition, a slight increase of the 3.2, 2.9, and 2.4kb precursor rRNAs was observed in the rps5 mutants relative to wild-type plants using a 23S rRNA gene-specific probe (CITATION). Cytosolic 18S rRNA was also examined. As expected, similar 18S rRNA levels were observed in these mutant and wild-type plants (CITATION, D), indicating that the RPS5 mutations did not affect cytosolic rRNA accumulation. The loading controls of RNA gel blots are shown in Supplementary Figure S5. Taken together, these data revealed that RPS5 mutations mainly caused the impairment of chloroplast 16S rRNA processing. While the effects of RP defects on a number of plastid and nuclear proteins have been examined previously via immunological analysis (CITATIONet al., 2012; CITATIONet al., 2012), there is limited information for their global effects on protein synthesis. Impaired chloroplast 16S rRNA processing can affect chloroplast translation (CITATIONet al., 2014). To obtain a global and quantitative view of proteins altered in rps5, a comparative proteomic analysis of total proteins from 4-week-old wild-type and rps5 leaves was carried out using an iTRAQ-based method. A total of 1007 proteins were identiﬁed, and 294 proteins were differentially expressed (P<0.05) (Supplementary Table S3). Among the differentially expressed proteins, 58 proteins were up-regulated with at least 1.33-fold change and 86 proteins were down-regulated with 0.75- or less fold change in all three biological replicates of rps5 (CITATION; Supplementary Table S4). Consistent with the reduced RPS5 expression (CITATION, F), the RPS5 protein level was also detected to have ~43% reduction in rps5 compared with wild-type plants (CITATION). Comparative proteomic analysis of the differentially expressed proteins in the rps5 proteome. (A) Numbers of up- and down-regulated proteins showing significant differences between the wild-type and rps5 proteome. (B) Relative level of RPS5 protein in wild-type and rps5 plants. Values are means±SD from three biological replicates. (C, D) Subcellular localization of (C) down-regulated and (D) up-regulated proteins in the rps5 proteome. (E, F) Functional classification of (E) down-regulated and (F) up-regulated proteins in the rps5 proteome. (This figure is available in colour at JXB online.) The majority of the differentially regulated proteins, in either the down-regulated (CITATION) or up-regulated (CITATION) groups, were localized to plastid. Notably, among the down-regulated plastid proteins, over half (26 of 47) were thylakoid membrane proteins (CITATION). In contrast, a majority (25 of 33) of up-regulated plastid proteins were stroma proteins (CITATION). These differentially expressed proteins were categorized into functional groups using MapMan (http://mapman.gabipd.org/web/guest/mapman). Proteins associated with photosynthesis and protein synthesis represented the most abundant groups (CITATION, F; Supplementary Tables S5 and S6), revealing that the defect in RPS5 exerted profound effects on chloroplast-localized proteins involved in photosynthesis and protein synthesis. In addition, to provide another approach examining the differentially expressed dominant proteins and validating iTRAQ data, a 2D gel-based quantitative proteomic analysis was conducted using SameSpots image analysis software. Thirteen spots with marked differences between wild-type and rps5 were selected to identify the differentially expressed proteins (CITATION). Consistent with the iTRAQ results, seven proteins, including RPS5, photosystem II subunit R (PsbR), ATPase subunit b (PDE334), and Rubisco small chain 1A (RBCS1A), were decreased in rps5, whereas the other seven proteins, including fructose-bisphosphate aldolase 5 (FBA5) and transketolase (ATTKL1), were increased in the mutant plants compared with wild-type plants (CITATION). The cross-validation of these differentially expressed proteins by 2D gel-based proteomic analysis corroborated the iTRAQ results and further confirmed that the amount of RPS5 protein was greatly reduced in rps5 plants relative to wild-type plants (spot 1507/1508 in CITATION; CITATION). 2D gel-based proteomic analysis of wild-type (top) and rps5 (bottom) plants. The differentially expressed proteins in wild-type and mutant plants are labelled by black circles and the enlarged 1507/1508 spots are indicated in red circles. Spots 1507/1508 indicate RPS5 protein. (This figure is available in colour at JXB online.) Cross-validation of proteins identified by iTRAQ- and 2D gel-based proteomic analyses emPAI ratio, protein ratio calculated by Exponentially Modified Protein Abundance Index; SC_unNor ratio, protein ratio calculated by Spectrum Counting_unNormalization. * The protein ratio is rps5:wild-type. Among the 86 down-regulated proteins (Supplementary Table S4), numerous proteins (28%) were involved in photosynthesis (CITATION; Supplementary Table S5). Many of these photosynthetic proteins were localized in thylakoid membrane, the site of the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis. They included six photosystem I polypeptide subunits (PSAD-1, PSAD-2, PSAE-1, PSAN, PSAL, and PSAF), 11 photosystem II polypeptide subunits (PSBTn-1, PSBTn-2, PSBR, psbE, psbH, PSBP-1, PSBP-2, PSBO-1, PSBO-2, PSBQ-1, and PSBQ-2), and three ATP synthases (ATPG, atpA, and atpB) (CITATION). Four (psbE, psbH, atpA, and atpB) were chloroplast-encoded proteins. Proteins that function in the Calvin cycle, such as CP12 domain-containing protein and Rubisco small subunit-4 (RBCS-4), were also dramatically reduced in the rps5 mutant. These results indicate that RPS5 exerts a strong effect on the photosynthetic proteins. Down-regulated proteins involved in photosynthesis and the chloroplast 30S subunit * The protein ratio is rps5:wild-type from iTRAQ analysis. In addition, a high proportion (23%) of the down-regulated proteins were those involved in protein synthesis (CITATION, Supplementary Table S5). Eighteen RPs were down-regulated in the rps5 mutant in comparison to wild-type plants. Most of these (13 of 18) were involved in the chloroplast 30S subunit (CITATION), which might result from RPS5 being a component of the chloroplast 30S subunit. Low plastid RP levels could affect ribosome function and plastid translation, which are essential for plant development and photosynthesis (CITATIONet al., 2012; CITATIONet al., 2012; CITATION). A total of 58 proteins were up-regulated in rps5, 33 of which were localized to chloroplast (Supplementary Table S4; CITATION). Among these plastid proteins, 25 were in the plastid stroma and mainly involved in protein synthesis, photosynthesis, and nitrogen metabolism (CITATION; Supplementary Table S6). In addition, proteins involved in nitrogen metabolism, secondary metabolism, one-carbon metabolism, vitamin metabolism, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and glycolysis were found only among the up-regulated proteins (Supplementary Table S6). Comparative proteomic analysis indicated that many proteins involved in photosynthesis were altered in rps5. To assess whether the expression of the photosynthesis-related genes was affected in the rps5 plants, the transcript levels of some nuclear- and plastid-encoded genes involved in photosynthesis were tested by qRT-PCR. The genes examined included those involved in photosystem I (psaA, psaB, psaC, PSAD, PSAE, and PSAF) and photosystem II (psbA, psbB, psbC, psbD, and psbE), as well as Rubisco large and small subunits (RbcL and RBCS). As shown in Supplementary Figure S6, no dramatic difference in expression of all the tested genes was observed in rps5 or Salk_095863 compared with wild-type plants. These data, along with the proteomics studies, indicate that the transcript profile of photosynthesis-related genes was not disturbed in the mutant plants and that RPS5 affected photosynthetic proteins at the translational level. Apart from those proteins associated with photosynthesis and protein synthesis, interestingly, a number of proteins involved in stress responses were found in the comparative proteomic analysis to be reduced in the rps5 mutant (Supplementary Table S4). These included four cold-regulated proteins (COR15a, COR15b, COR78, and COR6.6) and a pathogenesis-related protein (PR5) (CITATION). In addition, two dehydrin family proteins (ERD10 and ERD14) and five glutathione transferases (GST9, GSTF2, GSTF10, GSTU19, and GSTU20) were reduced in the rps5 mutant (Supplementary Table S4). The down-regulation of these stress-related proteins in rps5 suggested a potential role of RPS5 in stress responses. Role of RPS5 in cold stress tolerance. (A) Relative levels of proteins associated with the cold stress response in rps5 plants. Values represent means±SD from three biological replicates. (B) Phenotypes of wild-type (WT), Salk_095863, rps5, and two RPS5 overexpression lines grown on Murashige and Skoog medium at 4 °C for 6 weeks. (C) Average weight per seedling grown at 4 °C for 6 weeks. (D) Chlorophyll content of seedlings grown at 4 °C for 6 weeks. Values are means±SD from four biological replicates. (This figure is available in colour at JXB online.) To provide evidence in support of this, we compared plant growth of wild-type, Salk_095863, rps5, and two RPS5-overexpressing lines under cold treatment at 4 °C. The two RPS5-overexpressing lines contained 1.53- and 1.78-fold increases in the RPS5 protein levels, respectively, as measured via relative protein quantification by calculating the identified peptide peak areas of RPS5. When these plants were germinated and grown at 4 °C for 6 weeks, the seedlings of the two RPS5-overexpressing lines grew much better and had a dark green color in comparison with those of wild-type plants (CITATION). In contrast, the seedlings of rps5 showed a more yellow and less green color than the seedlings of wild-type control plants (CITATION). The Salk_095863 line had a weak phenotype in comparison with the rps5 mutant (CITATION). The difference in cold tolerance phenotypes between Salk_095863 and rps5 might be due to the different accumulation of functional RPS5 protein in Salk_095863 and the formation of malfunctioning RPS5 protein in rps5 due to the missense mutation. Noticeably, the rps5 mutant appeared to be more severely affected in the cold but less affected under normal growth conditions than the Salk_095863 line, suggesting that the malfunctioning RPS5 protein could function partially under normal growth conditions but was non-functional in cold conditions. The seedling weight after 6 weeks of growth at 4 °C was measured. The rps5 mutant exhibited significantly lower seedling weight than the wild-type control; in contrast, the two overexpressing lines showed enhanced seedling weight (CITATION). Moreover, the chlorophyll content was also significantly decreased in the rps5 mutant and increased in the two overexpressing lines (CITATION). These data support the potential role of RPS5 in cold stress tolerance.
!~MM~! All Arabidopsis thaliana plants used in this study were Columbia ecotype except where otherwise mentioned. Seeds of Arabidopsis were mutagenized by EMS and the M2 population was screened for the yellow leaf phenotype. Arabidopsis plants were grown on soil under controlled chamber conditions with a 16h light/8h dark photoperiod at 25 °C. Arabidopsis T-DNA homozygous lines of Salk_095863 from the ABRC stock center were identified by PCR using gene-specific primer sets (see Supplementary Table S1 at JXB online). For cold treatment, the surface-sterilized seeds were germinated and grown in Murashige and Skoog agar medium (4.3g l−1 Murashige and Skoog salts and 12g l−1 agar, pH 5.8) plates with 10g l−1 sucrose at 4 °C under light. After 6 weeks of growth, the cold-treated seedlings were photographed and analyzed. Total chlorophyll from 4-week-old rosette leaves (25mg) was extracted with 80% acetone. The absorbance of the supernatants was measured at 645 and 663nm, and chlorophyll content was calculated by simultaneous equations as described by CITATION. Carotenoids from leaf tissue of the same age (50mg) were extracted and analyzed as described previously (CITATIONet al., 2012). The samples were analyzed with three biological replicates. For cold-treated seedling weight measurement, 15 seedlings from each line were combined and weighed. The analysis was performed with four biological replicates. An F2 mapping population was generated by crossing the rps5 mutant in Columbia background with wild-type Arabidopsis ecotype Landsberg erecta. Genomic DNA from a total of 1258 homozygous rps5 F2 plants was isolated and used for fine mapping. Linkage analysis was conducted using simple sequence length polymorphism markers based on the TAIR database (http://www.arabidopsis.org/) and Arabidopsis Mapping Platform (http://amp.genomics.org.cn/). For molecular complementation of the rps5 mutant, a full-length RPS5 (At2g33800) cDNA was amplified by PCR and cloned into pCAMBIA1300s (CITATIONet al., 2011) to generate the overexpression plasmid 35S:RPS5. A native promoter complementation construct of RPS5:RPS5 was generated, which carried 2.6kb genomic DNA including the native promoter, 5ʹ-untranslated region (UTR), coding region, 3ʹ-UTR, and 3ʹ flanking sequences of RPS5. The PCR amplification primer sets used are shown in Supplementary Table S1. All the constructs were confirmed by sequencing. The plasmids were introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 by electroporation and transformed into Arabidopsis plants by floral dip. Positive transgenic plants were screened on Murashige and Skoog plates containing 30mg l−1 carbenicillin and 50mg l−1 hygromycin (CITATIONet al., 2015). Full-length cDNAs of RPS5 and rps5 were cloned into the pGPTVII.GFP vector (CITATIONet al., 2004) and electroporated into A. tumefaciens strain GV3101. Agrobacterium cells carrying the 35S:RPS5-GFP or 35S:rps5-GFP construct were infiltrated into 4-week-old tobacco leaves for transient expression. After infiltration, leaves of transgenic tobacco expressing RPS5-GFP and rps5-GFP fusion proteins were analyzed by a Leica TCS SP5 laser scanning confocal microscope as described by CITATIONet al. (2015). The primers used for the plasmid construction are listed in Supplementary Table S1. Total RNA from 4-week-old wild-type, rps5, and Salk_095863 rosette leaves was extracted and used for cDNA synthesis with random hexamer primers as described by CITATIONet al. (2015). Quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) was performed using iTaqTM Universal SYBR Green Supermix (Bio-Rad) with gene-specific primer sets (Supplementary Table S1). Thermal cycling conditions consisted of a ﬁrst step of denaturation at 95 °C for 10min, followed by 40 cycles of denaturation for 15s at 95 °C and annealing/extension for 1min at 60 °C. Relative expression levels were calculated using the △△Ct method (CITATIONet al., 2007) and normalized ﬁrst with a ubiquitin control and then with the expression of wild-type controls. Each sample was quantified in triplicate with three biological replicates. Total RNA (3 μg) from 4-week-old leaves was separated on 1.5% denaturing agarose gels containing 2.2M formaldehyde, transferred to a positively charged nylon membrane (Hybond-N, Amersham), and fixed by UV crosslinking. 16S, 18S, 23S, 5S, and 4.5S rRNA probes were amplified by PCR using gene-speciﬁc primers as described by CITATIONet al. (2008). 32P-labeled cDNA probes were generated using a random primer DNA-labeling kit (Life Technologies) following the manufacturer’s protocol. Filters were pre-hybridized for 1h at 42 °C using NorthernMax prehybridization/hybridization buffer (Life Technologies), hybridized with 32P-labeled DNA probes overnight at 42 °C, and washed as described by CITATIONet al. (2005). Storm 860 PhosphorImager (Molecular Dynamics) was used to detect the signals. The intensity of the image bands was quantified using ImageJ (http://www.di.uq.edu.au/sparqimagejblots). Total proteins from 4-week-old rosette leaves of wild-type and rps5 (Supplementary Figure S1) were extracted using the phenol extraction method (CITATIONet al., 2007). Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantiﬁcation (iTRAQ)-based proteomic analysis including protein purification, digestion, iTRAQ labeling, protein identification, and quantification was performed following methods detailed previously (CITATIONet al., 2011). The iTRAQ-labeled samples were analyzed on Orbitrap Elite using a two-dimensional (2D) LC-MS/MS approach. In addition, a gel-based proteomic analysis including 2D gel electrophoresis, comparative 2D gel image analysis using SameSpots software (Nonlinear Dynamics), in-gel digestion, and 2DGeLC sample analysis on Synapt HDMS coupled with nan-Acquity was carried out as described (CITATIONet al., 2013; CITATIONet al., 2007, 2011). Proteins extracted from RPS5-overexpressing lines were analyzed on Orbitrap Elite using a label-free approach and the relative quantification of PRS5 was determined by extracted ion chromatograms as described by CITATIONet al. (2013). The peak areas of detected precursor ions at each specific m/z corresponding to the targeted peptides were obtained with mass tolerance at 5ppm using Xcalibur 2.2 software. The functional classification of identified proteins was conducted based on the bincodes of MapMan (http://mapman.gabipd.org/web/guest/mapman). Protein subcellular localizations were predicted by TAIR10 (https://www.arabidopsis.org/) and the PPDB database (http://ppdb.tc.cornell.edu/).
