!~ABS~! AtCML4 and AtCML5 are single-pass membrane proteins localized to the interphase between Golgi and the endosomal system. They might provide a basis for calcium regulation of endosomal vesicle transport.
!~RES~! AtCML4 and AtCML5 are two closely related paralogues residing in CML subfamily VII. Similar to canonical CaMs they have a CaM domain comprising the characteristic double pair of EF-hands (CITATION, marked). Both proteins possess an N-terminal extension that distinguishes them from other members of this subfamily and from the canonical CaMs (CITATION). Taking AtCaM4 as a reference, these extensions span 40 amino acids in AtCML4 and 53 amino acids in AtCML5. A subsequent comparison of the two N-terminal domains revealed a marked sequence similarity, especially in the first 28 amino acids, hinting towards a shared evolutionary descent and/or a similar function. Initial support of the latter hypothesis comes from an in silico screen for signal peptides. Different tools unanimously predict a subcellular targeting sequence at the N-terminus of both proteins. However, there was no unanimous agreement with respect to the predicted intracellular location of the proteins (Supplementary Table S4). According to the Aramemnon Plant Membrane Protein Database (http://aramemnon.botanik.uni-koeln.de, accessed 3 March 2016), targeting of AtCML5 to the chloroplast or the secretory pathway is equally likely. In the case of AtCML4 the secretory pathway is clearly favoured. (A) Amino acid sequence alignment of AtCML2–7 and AtCaM4. Black boxes indicate identical amino acid residues while grey boxes indicate a conserved amino acid substitution. Black and grey bars above the sequence denote the four EF-hands with their characteristic 29-residue helix-loop-helix topology. Asterisks mark conserved residues involved in Ca2+ coordination, while the hash indicates a conserved glycine residue required for the conformational flexibility of the backbone. (B) Distribution of charged (*) and hydrophobic (Φ) residues within the signal anchor sequence of AtCML4 and AtCML5. To get a more refined view on the subcellular location of AtCML4 and AtCML5, their subcellular localization was analysed in planta by their transient expression as C-terminal fusions to YFP in tobacco leaf cells. Laser scanning confocal microscopy of protoplasts prepared from transformed leaf cells 48h after Agrobacterium infiltration showed the fluorescence signal of both proteins in small spherical structures that appeared throughout the cytoplasm of the cell (CITATION). Enlargement of these structures revealed a circular pattern (CITATION, inlays) and co-transformation of AtCML5-YFP and AtCML4-mCherry showed that the two proteins co-localize (CITATION). In light of this finding paired with the high sequence similarity of AtCML4 and AtCML5, the majority of further analyses was performed with AtCML5. Fluorescence analysis of tobacco protoplasts transformed (A) individually with AtCML5-YFP and AtCML4-YFP and (B) co-transformed with AtCML5-YFP and AtCML4-mCherry. (C) Subcellular localization of AtCML5 elucidated by staining of mitochondria with Mito-Tracker Red CMXRos (mitotracker) or co-transformation of tobacco protoplasts with mCherry-SKL, ER-mCherry, Golgi-mCherry, and ARA6-mCherry. YFP fluorescence is depicted in green, Mito-Tracker and mCherry fluorescence in magenta, and chlorophyll fluorescence in red. The white bar within all images represents 5 µm. Enlargements are shown as inlays. The AtCML5-YFP signal showed no overlap with chlorophyll fluorescence, demonstrating that AtCML5-YFP did not localize to the chloroplasts; it was also absent from the nucleus and the vacuole (CITATION). Labelling of AtCML5-YFP–expressing protoplasts with Mito-Tracker Red CMXRos and co-expression analysis with an mCherry-tagged marker protein for peroxisomes (mCherry-SKL; CITATIONet al., 2012) revealed no overlap in fluorescence, also excluding the mitochondria and peroxisomes as the potential target compartments of AtCML5-YFP (CITATION). Furthermore, co-expression analyses were performed with established marker proteins that label the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (AtWAK2), Golgi (GmMAN1), and multivesicular bodies (MVBs)/endosomes (ARA6), respectively (CITATIONet al., 2001; CITATIONet al., 2007; CITATIONet al., 2009). ARA6 and GmMAN1 both displayed a predominantly dot-like signal as described previously and as seen exclusively in single transformations (Supplementary Fig. S1A). However, upon co-transformation with AtCML5-YFP, spherical structures became evident for both proteins. Moreover, a partial but not complete overlap with the signal from AtCML5-YFP was observed for both marker proteins exclusively in these spherical structures (CITATION). Together, these results indicate that AtCML5 resides in vesicular structures within the interphase between the Golgi and the MVBs/endosomes, and circulation dynamics within these endomembrane compartments are the likely cause for the partial co-localization. Importantly, because transient expression of YFP-tagged AtCML4 and AtCML5 in Arabidopsis protoplasts controlled by their respective endogenous promoters results in a similar fluorescence signal pattern (Supplementary Fig. S1B), the observed signal in tobacco protoplasts is not an artefact caused by 35S-promoter driven overexpression. To further confirm these findings, microsome fractions from tobacco leaf cells expressing either AtCML5-YFP or ARA6-mCherry were mixed after isolation and further separated on a sucrose density gradient. Using this approach, any influence of the expression of AtCML5 on the localization of ARA6 and vice versa was avoided. All fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE (Coomassie staining is shown in Supplementary Fig. S2A) and subsequently probed with antibodies against GFP and RFP to detect AtCML5-YFP and ARA6-mCherry, respectively (CITATION). Antibodies against sterol methyltransferase 1 (SMT1), an ER integral membrane protein (CITATIONet al., 2010), and ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1), a protein found in the Golgi and the trans-Golgi network (CITATIONet al., 2008), were used to detect endogenous proteins of these compartments (CITATION). While SMT1 was clearly separated from the other proteins, ARF1, ARA6, and AtCML5 signals were all found distributed in the same fractions of the gradient (CITATION), supporting the dynamic localization of AtCML5. (A) Separation of isolated microsomes expressing AtCML5-YFP and ARA6-mCherry by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Top-down aliquots of fractions as indicated were separated by SDS-PAGE and analysed by western blot using α-GFP to detect AtCML5-YFP, α-RFP to detect ARA6-mCherry, and antibodies against ARF1 and SMT1 to detect endogenous proteins of the Golgi and ER, respectively. (B) Extraction of membrane proteins using isolated microsomes from tobacco leaf cells expressing AtCML5-YFP, AtCML51–28-YFP, and ER-mCherry or chloroplasts from tobacco leaf cells expressing AtOEP7-YA. Extraction was performed with 0.5M NaCl, 100mM Na2CO3 (pH 11.5; carbonate), 6M urea, or 2% LDS. Aliquots of supernatant and pellet fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE and proteins were visualized by western blot using tag-specific antibodies. (C) Thermolysin treatment of microsomes from tobacco leaf cells expressing AtCML5-YFP, AtCML51–28-YFP, or ER-mCherry. Proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and proteins were visualized by western blot using tag-specific antibodies. In the next step, the question was addressed whether the in silico predicted N-terminal targeting signal indeed mediates subcellular targeting. A series of YFP-tagged truncated variants of AtCML5 was generated and their subcellular localization investigated (CITATION). Notably, the variant lacking the first 28 amino acids (AtCML528–215-YFP), which are strongly conserved between AtCML4 and AtCML5 (CITATION), showed a uniform fluorescence pattern devoid of any vesicular structures. The pattern is similar to that observed with cytosolic protein (CITATION, Cyt-YFP), indicating that the protein is no longer targeted into the endomembrane system. By contrast, a variant comprising only the first 28 amino acids of AtCML5 (AtCML51–28-YFP) showed the same spherical pattern as the full-length protein (CITATION, AtCML5-YFP). These results strongly indicate that the first 28 amino acids of AtCML5 are both essential and sufficient for targeting of the protein into the endomembrane system. (A) Fluorescence analysis of tobacco leaf cell protoplasts transformed with AtCML5-YFP, AtCML51–28-YFP, AtCML528–215-YFP and a cytosolic marker (Cyt-YFP). (B) Fluorescence analysis of tobacco leaf cell protoplasts co-transformed with the saGFP pairs AtCML5-saGFP11 + Cyt-saGFP1–10, AtCML4-saGFP11 + Cyt-saGFP1–10, AtCML4-saGFP11 + AtCML5-saGFP1–10, and Cyt-saGFP1–10 + Cyt-saGFP11. The white bar within all images represents 5 µm. The spherical pattern observed for the AtCML5-YFP fluorescence indicates that the protein is associated with the vesicle membrane rather than localized inside the vesicle lumen. In line with this observation, a set of programmes for transmembrane-domain prediction indicated a potential transmembrane helix in the N-terminus of both AtCML4 and AtCML5 that partially overlaps with the targeting sequence (Supplementary Table S5). This region therefore resembles the transmembrane domain of typical single-pass membrane proteins. To confirm the integration of AtCML5 into the membrane, extraction experiments using isolated microsomal fractions from tobacco cells expressing AtCML5-YFP or ER-mCherry (AtWAK2 is a luminal ER protein) were performed. As a control, chloroplast membranes isolated from tobacco cells expressing fluorescence-tagged chloroplast OEP7 from A. thaliana (AtOEP7-YA) were used, because OEP7 is also a single-pass membrane protein (CITATIONet al., 1990). Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of the tagged proteins in the microsomal or chloroplast membrane pellet (CITATION, untreated). As expected, treatment of membranes with either 0.5 NaCl or alkaline carbonate (pH 11.5) could not extract the majority of the OEP7 protein from the membrane fraction. AtCML5 behaved in a manner very similar to OEP7, with only minor signals observed in the supernatant of the carbonate extraction (CITATION, AtCML5-YFP). By contrast, AtWAK2 was found in the supernatant after alkaline carbonate treatment (CITATION, ER-mCherry) because it converts vesicles into sheets and thus releases their soluble content as well as proteins peripherally associated with the membrane. Only integral proteins remain associated with the membrane under these conditions (CITATIONet al., 1982). Control treatments with 6M urea or LDS resulted in a release of all proteins into the soluble fraction. The same extraction experiments were performed with isolated microsomes from tobacco cells expressing the AtCML51–28-YFP variant and demonstrated a very similar extraction pattern as AtCML5-YFP (CITATION, AtCML51–28-YFP). Together, these results strongly support AtCML5 as a single-pass membrane protein with an N-terminal signal anchor within its first 28 amino acids. The finding that AtCML5 is anchored to the membrane raises the question of whether the C-terminal CaM domain is luminal or exposed to the cytosolic surface. To address this question, isolated microsomes expressing AtCML5-YFP, AtCML51–28-YFP or ER-mCherry were treated with thermolysin before western blot analysis (CITATION). Immunodecoration clearly showed that the luminal ER marker protein AtWAK2 is fully protected from degradation by thermolysin. By contrast, both AtCML5-YFP and AtCML51–28-YFP can be degraded by the protease, indicating that the C-terminally fused YFP protein that reacts with the antibody and thus the C-terminal CaM domain of AtCML5 is exposed to the outside of the microsomal vesicles. To confirm the topology of AtCML5, the saGFP system was employed (CITATIONet al., 2005; CITATIONet al., 2011). In this system the first 10 beta-sheets (saGFP1–10) and the 11th beta-sheet (saGFP11) of GFP are fused to different proteins. Owing to the high affinity of these moieties, they self-assemble to a functional GFP if they are present in the same compartment, resulting in a fluorescence signal. To show that this system can mark a specific compartment if one of the partners is integral to the membrane with the saGFP domain exposed to the surface and the other partner is a cytosolic protein, OEP7-saGFP1–10 was transformed together with Cyt-saGFP11 into tobacco mesophyll cells. Their co-expression resulted in ring-like fluorescence signals around the chloroplasts (Supplementary Fig. S1C). Co-expression of two cytosolic proteins resulted in the characteristic diffuse signal throughout the cell (CITATION, Cyt-saGFP1–10 + Cyt-saGFP11). When AtCML5-saGFP11 was co-transformed with Cyt-saGFP1–10, a clear GFP signal could be observed in spherical structures like those observed for AtCML5-YFP (compare CITATION, AtCML5-YFP with CITATION, Cyt-saGFP1–10 + CML5-saGFP11). Co-expression of AtCML4 with the cytosolic marker (CITATION, Cyt-saGFP1–10 + AtCML4-saGFP11) or AtCML5 (CITATION, AtCML5-saGFP1–10 + AtCML4-saGFP11) also resulted in the typical spherical structures, confirming that AtCML4 and AtCML5 share the same localization and topology. Outside their N-terminal extension, AtCML4 and AtCML5 contain a CaM domain with high sequence similarity to canonical CaMs (cf. CITATION), including four EF-hands with their characteristic 29-residue helix-loop-helix topology. The residues involved in Ca2+ coordination (D1, D/N3, D5, and E12) as well as the small G6 required for the conformational flexibility of the backbone are all conserved in these CMLs (http://pfam.xfam.org/family/PF00036, accessed 4 March 2016). When analysed in vitro, recombinant AtCML4 and AtCML5 lacking the signal-anchor sequence (AtCML427–194-6His or AtCML527–215-6His) displayed a faster migration on SDS-PAGE in the presence of Ca2+ compared to the same sample run in the absence of Ca2+ (Supplementary Fig. S3A). This characteristic, a Ca2+ -dependent mobility shift upon SDS-PAGE separation, has previously been associated with binding of calcium ions to the EF-hands of CaMs (CITATIONet al., 1991; CITATIONet al., 1992). AtCML527–215-6His furthermore binds to phenyl-Sepharose in the presence of Ca2+ and can be eluted when Ca2+ is replaced by EDTA/EGTA (Supplementary Fig. S3B). These are both characteristic features of canonical CaMs and indicate that AtCML4 and AtCML5 can act as typical CaM proteins (CITATION). Plants contain a vast number of different CMLs, indicating a strong diversification of this calcium sensor family (CITATION; CITATION). They fall into various subfamilies that appear to be differentially distributed throughout the plant kingdom (CITATION; CITATIONet al., 2015). Members of the CML2–7 clade (part of subfamily VII) are found exclusively in flowering plants (CITATIONet al., 2015). Unfortunately, the identification of orthologues for AtCML4 and AtCML5 among these proteins was substantially hindered by the generally very high sequence similarity of the CaM domain among all members of the CML2–7 clade. This is most likely a result of a functional constraint restricting the evolution of this domain, which renders it unsuitable for a high-resolution inference of evolutionary relationships among the homologues. Therefore, we used the presence of an N-terminal extension as the indicative characteristic to assign sequences as putative members of the CML4/5 subfamily. Using this restriction, CML4/5-like proteins could not be identified in the early branching magnoliophyte, Amborella trichopoda, and only two CML4/5-like proteins were found in the monocots. A CML4/5-like protein was found in the basal eudicot Nelumbo nucifera and at least one ortholog was found in core eudicots. The N-terminal extensions of all CML4/5-like proteins display sequence similarity to both AtCML4 and AtCML5 (CITATION). In particular, the region of the signal anchor sequence is highly conserved, suggesting that all these proteins might be targeted into the endomembrane system. To trace the evolutionary history of this gene family, we performed a phylogenetic analysis on a representative subset of CML4/5 proteins spanning the full taxonomic diversity of plants where these proteins have been identified (CITATION and Supplementary Fig. S4). The resulting tree places the sequences from the Brassicaceae in two well-supported monophyletic clades for CML4 and CML5, respectively (CITATION). Moreover, all Brassicaceae CML4 and CML5 sequences share a common ancestry to the exclusion of the CML4/5 proteins from other plants. This indicates that the gene duplication event that gave rise to contemporary CML4 and CML5 most likely occurred in the last common ancestor of the Brassicaceae. (A) Amino acid sequence alignment of the N-terminal extension of CML4/5 proteins from species representing different orders of flowering plants. Black boxes indicate identical amino acid residues while grey boxes indicate similar amino acids. (B) Phylogenetic relationship of CML4/5-like proteins from different orders of flowering plants. Phylogenetic tree construction was performed by maximum likelihood based on the sequence alignment provided in Supplementary Fig. S4. For accession numbers see Supplementary Table S3. A distribution of plants with CML4/5-like proteins within the different orders of angiosperms can be found in Supplementary Fig. S5.
!~MM~! 35S-promotor driven transient expression of YFP fusion proteins was performed by Agrobacterium infiltration of tobacco leaf cells. To that end, the entire coding sequences of AT2G43290 (AtCML5), AT3G59440 (AtCML4), and At1g66410 (AtCAM4) as well as variants thereof were cloned N-terminally to the YFP sequence into the plant expression vector pBIN19 (CITATIONet al., 1992). For self-assembly GFP (saGFP) analysis (CITATIONet al., 2005; CITATIONet al., 2011), the entire coding sequences of AT2G43290 and AT3G59440 as well as different control proteins were cloned into either pBIN19-saGFP1–10 or pBIN19-saGFP11 (a kind gift from Dr Stael, formerly of the University of Vienna), thereby creating N-terminal fusions to either the first 10 or the 11th beta-sheet of GFP. At1g66410 (AtCAM4) was used as a cytosolic marker (Cyt-saGFP1–10 + Cyt-saGFP11) and the chloroplast small outer envelope protein OEP7 (CITATIONet al., 2012) was used to mark the cytosolic surface of chloroplasts (OEP7-saGFP1–10). For transient expression of YFP fusion protein by PEG-mediated transformation of Arabidopsis protoplast under the endogenous promoter, 1754 base pairs of the 5′ UTR of AtCML4 and 1031 base pairs of the 5′ UTR of AtCML5 as well as their respective coding sequences were fused to the YFP coding sequence and cloned into pGREENII (CITATIONet al., 2000). An overview of all primers used as well as the final constructs is presented in Supplementary Tables S1 and S2. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of tobacco leaf cells was performed as described in CITATIONet al. (2003) with the Agrobacterium strain LBA1334. Protoplasts were isolated out of leaf tissue 48h after transformation as described in CITATIONet al. (1996) and further analysed using a Leica TCS SP5 confocal laser scanning microscope. The mCherry-fused marker proteins ER-mCherry (SP-AtWAK2-mCherry-HDEL), Golgi-mCherry (GmMAN11–49-mCherry) and ARA6-mCherry were used for single and double transformation. All of these markers are expressed under the 35S-promoter and their correct localization under these conditions is well established (CITATIONet al., 2001; CITATIONet al., 2007). To detect mitochondria, protoplast suspensions were incubated for 30min at room temperature with 125nM of MitoTracker (RedCMX Ros Invitrogen, 1mM stock in dimethyl sulfoxide) in the appropriate protoplast incubation media. Image processing was performed using the Leica Application Suite for Advanced Fluorescence. For extraction experiments, tobacco leaf cells were also transformed with pBIN-OEP7-YA (CITATIONet al., 2012), a fusion protein with OEP7 that exposes the YFP-aequorin tag to the cytosol. Isolation and transformation of Arabidopsis mesophyll cell protoplasts was performed according to CITATIONet al. (2007). Microsomal fractions and chloroplasts were isolated from tobacco leaves transiently expressing various YFP or mCherry fusion proteins. Expression of the proteins in leaf mesophyll cells was confirmed by fluorescence microscopy 48h after Agrobacterium infiltration. All following steps were performed at 4°C. Chloroplast isolation was performed according to CITATIONet al. (2012). For the isolation of microsomal fractions, leaves were homogenized in 50mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 1mM EDTA, and 0.5M sucrose and filtered through a 30 µm diameter nylon mesh. The microsomal fraction was further enriched by differential centrifugation for 10min at 4°C and 4200g (to pellet chloroplasts), followed by 10min at 4°C and 10 000g (to pellet mitochondria and nuclei), and finally for 1h at 4°C and 100 000g. The supernatant of the last centrifugation step was discarded and the pellet re-suspended in 10mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 5mM EDTA, and 0.25M sucrose for membrane extraction assays and sucrose density gradient analysis, or in 10mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 0.25M sucrose, and 2mM CaCl2 for thermolysin treatment. For further separation, isolated microsomal fractions were placed on top of a 20–50% continuous sucrose density gradient and centrifuged for 16h at 4°C and 100 000g. Subsequently, 500 µl fractions were collected from the top to the bottom of the tube and analysed by SDS-PAGE and western blotting. For membrane extraction, isolated microsomal fractions and chloroplasts were centrifuged for 10min at 289 000g and 4200g, respectively. The pellets were re-suspended in 10mM Tris, pH 7.5, 5mM EDTA, and 0.25M sucrose containing either 0.5M NaCl, 0.1M Na2CO3, 6M urea, or 2% lithium dodecyl sulfate (LDS), and incubated for 20min at room temperature for the urea-containing samples or 4°C for all other samples. Afterwards, the reactions were centrifuged for 10min at 289 000g and 4200g, respectively, and pellets were re-suspended in SDS-PAGE sample buffer and analysed by SDS-PAGE and western blotting. For the protease protection assays, thermolysin was added to the microsomal fractions to a final concentration of 2 µg/µl. After 20min of incubation at 4°C, EDTA was added to a final concentration of 5mM to stop the reaction. After centrifugation for 10min at 289 000g, the pellets were resuspended in SDS-PAGE sample buffer and analysed by SDS-PAGE and western blotting. Western blot analyses was performed using antisera against RFP and GFP (ChromoTek GmbH, Germany), aequorin (Abcam, UK), as well as SMT1 and Arf1 (Agrisera AB, Sweden). Accession numbers were obtained from the EMBL/GenBank data libraries and are listed in Supplementary Table S3. Sequences were aligned with MAFFT version 7 (http://mafft.cbrc.jp/alignment/server/index.html, accessed 4 March 2016) using the L-INS-i algorithm (CITATIONet al., 2002). Shading of the alignments was performed with BOXSHADE 3.31 (http://mobyle.pasteur.fr, accessed 4 March 2016). Maximum likelihood phylogeny trees were reconstructed with PhyML 3.1/3.0 aLRT (http://www.phylogeny.fr, accessed 4 March 2016) using the JTT substitution model (CITATIONet al., 1992). We modelled substitution rate heterogeneity across sites with a gamma distribution allowing for a fraction of invariant sites. Branch support was assessed using a non-parametric bootstrap approach with 304 repetitions.
