!~ABS~! The histone deacetylases play important roles in the regulation of gene expression and the subsequent control of a number of important biological processes, including those involved in the response to environmental stress. A specific group of histone deacetylase genes, HD2, is present in plants. In Arabidopsis, HD2s include HD2A, HD2B, HD2C, and HD2D. Previous research showed that HD2A, HD2B, and HD2C are more related in terms of expression and function, but not HD2D. In this report, we studied different aspects of AtHD2D in Arabidopsis with respect to plant response to drought and other abiotic stresses. Bioinformatics analysis indicates that HD2D is distantly related to other HD2 genes. Transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana and stable expression in Arabidopsis of AtHD2D fused with gfp showed that AtHD2D was expressed in the nucleus. Overexpression of AtHD2D resulted in developmental changes including fewer main roots, more lateral roots, and a higher root:shoot ratio. Seed germination and plant flowering time were delayed in transgenic plants expressing AtHD2D, but these plants exhibited higher degrees of tolerance to abiotic stresses, including drought, salt, and cold stresses. Physiological studies indicated that the malondialdehyde (MDA) content was high in wild-type plants but in plants overexpressing HD2D the MDA level increased slowly in response to stress conditions of drought, cold, and salt stress. Furthermore, electrolyte leakage in leaf cells of wild type plants increased but remained stable in transgenic plants. Our results indicate that AtHD2D is unique among HD2 genes and it plays a role in plant growth and development regulation and these changes can modulate plant stress responses.
!~RES~! DNA sequence analysis showed that the overall homology of AtHD2 genes is 35% (Figure CITATION). Sequence homology of AtHD2A and AtHD2B was 59% which is the highest. AtHD2D is distantly related to the other AtHD2 genes, and this observation is supported by the sequence homology value of only 35%. Meanwhile the phylogenetic tree showed that the genetic distance (GD) between AtHD2A and AtHD2B was 0.042, next was AtHD2C, and the largest GD was AtHD2D with a value of 0.056 (Figure CITATION). Protein sequence alignment showed that the overall similarity of the HD2 proteins was 51% (Figure CITATION). The phylogenetic tree showed that AtHD2A and AtHD2B were the closest, the GD being the smallest. On the other hand, the AtHD2D protein was furthest among the HD2 proteins with a GD-value of 0.481 (Figure CITATION). Homology tree and phylogenetic tree of AtHD2 genes and AtHD2 proteins. (A) CDS of AtHD2 gene homology tree. (B) CDS of AtHD2 gene phylogenetic tree. (C) AtHD2 protein homology tree. (D) AtHD2 protein phylogenetic tree. The analysis of HD2 genes showed that HD2D is largely different from other HD2 genes. The molecular weight of HD2D is significantly lower compared to other HD2 genes (Supplementary Table CITATION). While HD2A, HD2C genes contain the zinc finger domain, the HD2D lacks this important region. The HD2D showed the lowest random coil value and the highest values of β-turn, pI and extended strand (Supplementary Table CITATION). Plants of 30 randomly selected independently lines developed on medium containing hygromycin were analyzed by PCR and RT- PCR using specific primers (Supplementary Table CITATION, Figure CITATION). All the lines analyzed were PCR positive for HD2D using pr1 and pr2 primer pair as shown in a representative image Figure CITATION. The RNA expression of transgene was analyzed for randomly selected independent lines using RT-PCR using transgene specific primers (Figures CITATION, Supplementary Table CITATION) and the actin2 gene was used as the internal control. The RNA expression of AtHD2D was increased in 35S:AtHD2D transgenic lines comparing to the control (Figure CITATION). Plants transformed with AtHD2D-gfp showed expression of the fused gene (Figure CITATION) but no expression of AtHD2D-GFP was observed in the non-transformed wild type. Expression of actin2 as the internal control was consistent in both non-transformed wild types and transformed plants (Figure CITATION). These results confirmed the expression of transgenes in plants developed following transformation. Expression analysis of AtHD2D and of AtHD2D-gfp in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants. (A) Diagram of the 35S:AtHD2C-gfp construct. AtHD2D CDS was fused with the gfp-coding region driven by a 35S promoter. The primers, pr1, pr2, and pr3, used to analyze AtHD2D and AtHD2D-gfp in transgenic plants were shown. (B) PCR analysis of 35S:AtHD2D-gfp transgenic and wild-type (WT) plants using primer pairs of pr1 and pr3. No PCR product was found in WT. (C) RT-PCR analysis of AtHD2D and AtHD2D-gfp expression in transgenic and wild-type plants using the primer pairs of pr1 and pr2 or pr1 and pr3. No RT-PCR product of AtHD2D-gfp was found in WT. Two software programs, ProtComp and PSORT II Prediction, were used to predict the subcellular location of AtHD2 protein. The HD2D protein was positioned in the cell nucleus but with the lowest value compared to other HD2 genes (Supplementary Table CITATION) and it does not have a membrane spanning domain nor a signal peptide. Meanwhile, HD2D showed a high possibility to localize in cytoplasm and the highest possibility to be distributed in cytoskeleton, mitochondria, and peroxisome. AtHD2D also had the lowest integral prediction value. The actual location of the AtHD2D protein was studied via gene expression experiments. N. benthamiana leaves were infiltrated with a construct containing AtHD2D fused with gfp and the expression was observed 48–72 h after the infiltration. The gfp gene alone driven by CaM35S promoter showed constitutive protein expression activity in plant cells (Figure CITATION). The expression of AtHD2D-GFP was mainly localized in nucleus (Figures CITATION). There were halos around the fusion protein, as opposed to clear boundariess which were very sharp and without a fringe or halo, as seen in other AtHD2 proteins. Subcellular localization analyses of 35S:AtHD2D and 35S:AtHD2D-GFP. (a) Fluorescence image, (b) With white light, (c) Merge of fluorescence and bright images. (A) Subcellular localization of 35S:GFP in N. bentamiana. (B) Subcellular localization of AtHD2D-GFP in N. bentamiana. (C) General view of subcellular localization of AtHD2D-GFP in N. bentamiana. (D) Subcellular localization of 35S:GFP in root tip of transgenic Arabidopsis. (E) Subcellular localization of 35S:AtHD2D-GFP in root tip of transgenic Arabidopsis. (F) General view of subcellular localization of 35S:AtHD2D-GFP in root tip of transgenic Arabidopsis. AtHD2D subcellular localization was further studied via stable expression of the gene in Arabidopsis. Two transgenic lines with higher levels of AtHD2D-gfp expression were selected in the study. Stable expression of AtHD2D gene in transgenic Arabidopsis root cells was observed. Plants transformed with gfp driven by 35S promoter showed constitutive expression in root cells (Figure CITATION). Plants transformed with a construct carrying the fusion AtHD2D-gfp showed that GFP was expressed in the nucleus (Figures CITATION). Both transient and stable expression studies indicated that the location of AtHD2D is mainly in the cell nucleus. Seed germination was evaluated for plants overexpressing the AtHD2D. Germination of seeds from transgenic plants was slower compared to the wild-type (Figure CITATION). While germination of the wild type seeds was 75.6% in 2 days and 98.2% by day 4, germination of transgenic seeds was delayed by 5–6 days. Seed germination and flowering of wild type (WT) and 35S: AtHD2D transgenic plants under regular conditions on MS medium. The data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation of the mean (SD) and were tested for significant difference using Student's t-test (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01). (A) Seed germination rate of WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants. (B) Plant flowering rate of WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic seedlings. (C,E) WT seedlings. (D,F) 35S:AtHD2D transgenic seedlings. Flowering time was significantly delayed in transgenic plants (Figure CITATION). During the 12 day observation period, transgenic plants consistently showed lower flowering rates compared to wild type plants. By day 12, about 90% of WT plants showed bloom development, but transgenic plants were largely still in a vegetative growth stage (Figures CITATION). Ten days after germination on MS medium, the root development was evaluated. The plants overexpressing AtHD2D had shorter main roots and longer lateral roots (Figures CITATION). In contrast, the wild type plants under the same growth conditions had obviously longer main roots but shorter lateral roots (Figures CITATION). Transgenic plants also had more lateral roots compared to wild type plants (Figures CITATION). The root:shoot ratio of transgenic plants was higher than that of wild type plants (Figure CITATION). Root development of wild-type and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants. The error bars represent the SD. The data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation of the mean (SD) and were tested for significant difference using Student's t-test (**p < 0.01). (A,C) Roots of wild-type (WT) 10 days after germination. (B,D) Phenotype of roots and leaves of 35S:AtHD2D of transgenic seedlings 10 days after germination. (E) Root and shoot ratio of WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants 10 days after germination on MS medium. (F) Root length and root number of WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants. Plants overexpressing AtHD2D showed increased tolerance to cold, drought, and salt stresses (Figure CITATION). Under cold and drought conditions, the HD2D overexpressing plants grew normally and retained normal green color in leaves (Figures CITATION). However, wild type plants grew slowly and the leaves wilted and turned brown and showed stressed phenotypes. Under salt stress, wild type plants became yellow in color and plants were obviously injured but plants overexpressing HD2D grew relatively normally and produced flowers (Figures CITATION). Full view of wild type (WT) and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants under abiotic stresses. The error bars represent the SD. The data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation of the mean (SD) and were tested for significant difference using Student's t-test (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01). (A) WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants under cold stress for 8 days. (B) WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants under drought stress conditions for 9 days. (C) WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants under salt stress conditions for 18 days. (D) Browning levels in leaves of WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants under cold stress. (E) Browning levels in leaves of WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic seedlings under drought stress. (F) Browning levels in leaves ofWT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic seedlings under salt stress. Based on Campos and Nunes (CITATION), MDA and electrolyte leakage were conducted. MDA levels in transgenic plants overexpressing AtHD2D increased slowly under cold, drought and salt conditions, while MDA levels in wild type leaves increased rapidly over the time (Figures CITATION). Analysis of electrolyte leakage from leaves (an indicator of cell membrane damage) during the course of abiotic stresses showed that electrolyte leakage of wild type plants increased steadily, while electrolyte leakage in transgenic plants overexpressing AtHD2D increased slowly and remained relatively stable (Figures CITATION). Malonaldehyde (MDA) and electrolyte leakage levels in WT and 35S:AtHD2D transgenic plants under abiotic stresses. The error bars represent the SD. The data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation of the mean (SD) and were tested for significant difference using Student's t-test (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01). (A) MDA level under cold stress condition. (B) MDA level under drought stress condition. (C) MDA level under salt stress condition. (D) Electrolyte leakage level under cold stress. (E) Electrolyte leakage level under drought stress. (F) Electrolyte leakage level under salt stress.
!~MM~! The AtHD2 gene sequence analysis was conducted using the ExPASy net (Bioinfor- matics Resource Portal (http://www.expasy.ch/tools/#proteome). DNAMAN (Version 5.5.2, Lynnon Biosoft) was used forsequence alignment analysis of AtHD2 coding-sequence (CDS). Considering HD2s belong to one family and share certain similarities, we used Maximum Parsimony method for phylogenetic tree construction. Bootstrap was used to test the developed trees. MEGA 6.0 was used in the analysis. The bioinformation of AtHD2D gene expression product was predicted by primary structure analysis. Two software programs, ProtParam, and PSORT II Prediction, were used to predict the subcellular localization of AtHD2 proteins. In addition, the tool for transmembrane regions and signal peptide sequence analysis, ProtComp 9.0 tool (http://linux1.softberry.com/berry.phtml?topic=protcomppl& group=programs&subgroup=proloc) fuzzy k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) algorithm (version 41.0), and TMHMM Server v. 2.0 were used for AtHD2 protein analysis. Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype, Columbia) was used in this research. Arabidopsis seeds were surface-sterilized in 70% ethanol for 1, 10 min in 10% v/v sodium hypochlorite, and rinsed 5 times with sterile distilled water. The seeds were sown on MS medium (Murashige and Skoog, CITATION; Sigma-Aldrich, Lenexa, KS, USA) in Petri dishes. The plants were maintained in a tissue culture room with 16 h of light at 25°C/8 h of dark conditions at 22°C. Germinated seedlings were transferred into soil (PRO-MIX “BX” with Mycorise PRO, Primer Horticulture, Grower Services Canada). Plant seedlings were grown in a growth chamber under 16 h of light at 25°Cand 8 h of dark conditions at 22°C (unless for stress treatments which are described specifically). Each overexpression independent line of Arabidopsis was grown in one of conjoined pots (9 × 12 cm, height × diameter). Each pot was planted with 12 seedlings, all from the same clone. The overexpression seedlings of the same independent line were planted into pots randomly for different stress treatments. After plants were transferred into soil, each pot was covered with transparent film for 4 days to avoid rapid water loss. The putative HD2D mRNA complete coding sequence (CDS) was obtained from the NCBI (National Center for Biotechnology Information; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nucleotide/145360405?report=genbanklog=nucltop) and TAIR (The Arabidopsis Inform- ation Resource (http://www.arabidopsis.org/servlets/TairObject?type=locus&name=AT2G27840) databases. According to the coding sequence, the 35S:AtHD2D vector for overexpression and 35S:AtHD2D-gfp vector for HD2D subcellular location were constructed. The AtHD2D was amplified using the primer pair of pr1 (5′-ACCAGATCTATGGAG TTTTGGGGTATCGAG-3′) and pr2 (5′- CCACTAGTCTACTTT TTGCAAGAGGGACCAC-3′) and fusion AtHD2D-gfp was amplified using the pr1 and pr3 (5′-CCACTAGTCTTTTTGC AAGAGGGACCAC-3′; Supplementary Table CITATION) and all with appropriate restriction sequences (BglII and SpeI). Phusion high-fidelity DNA polymerase (F-530S, 100U New England Biolabs, Inc. USA) was used in the PCR reaction to minimize undesired mutations in the sequences. The construct for subcellular location of AtHD2D was made by in-frame fusion of complete AtHD2D CDS with the gfp sequence in which the stop codon (TAG) of AtHD2D CDS was deleted. The resulting PCR products were cloned to pGEM®-T and pGEM®-T Easy Vector Systems (A1360 Promega Corporation) digested by BglII and SpeI and then transferred into the pCAMBIA1302 binary vector containing the hptII coding for hygromycin resistance which was used as the selectable marker for plant transformation selection. The constructs were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101/pMP90 by electroporation using the GENE PULSER II system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). The 35S:AtHD2D vector and 35S:AtHD2D-gfp vector were introduced into Arabidopsis separately for overexpression studies and for subcellular location studies, respectively. Arabidopsis transformation followed the floral dip method (Clough and Bent, CITATION). T1 seeds were harvested, dried at 25°Cand germinated on MS medium containing 30 μg mL−1 hygromycin to select transgenic seedlings, and 50 μg mL−1 carbenicillin was added to prevent Agrobacterium contamination. Seeds obtained from the primary transgenic lines were germinated on antibiotic–containing medium, and PCR analyses were performed on resistant plants. Surviving and PCR analysis positive T1 plantlets were transferred to soil to harvest T2 seeds. T2 seeds were germinated as described before and T3 seeds were harvested. Plants developed from T3 seeds were used as the materials for all experiments. To produce the Arabidopsis plants for confocal fluorescence observation, seeds were sown on MS medium in vertical plates and the plants were grown for 6 days. Root tips were harvested and used for observation. Nicotiana benthamiana were grown as described by Han et al. (CITATION), and plants were maintained in growth chambers for investigating the subcellular localization of HD2D-GFP in transient gene expression experiments. The chamber conditions were set at 14 h light and 10 h dark at 21°C. Young leaves were infiltrated with Agrobacterium GV3101/pMP90 containing the HD2D-gfp construct and observations were conducted 48–72 h after infiltration. Total genomic DNA was extracted from plant leaves using a CTAB method as described by Wang et al. (CITATION). Total RNA was isolated from leaves using TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA) following manufacturer's instructions. Primers specific to the hptII gene for a 563 bp PCR product (Supplementary Table CITATION) were used in PCR analysis of plants. The pr1 and pr2 primers specific for HD2D, and the pr1 and pr3 primers specific for HD2D-gfp were also used in PCR analysis. The primer for the Actin2 gene of Arabidopsis (Czechowski et al., CITATION) was used as an internal control. All PCR reactions were performed with 1 unit of Taq polymerase (GenScript, the Biology Co, USA), 0.2 mM dNTPs, and a pair of primers (0.1 μM each) in a final volume of 20 μl. PCR was conducted at 94°C for 2 min followed by 30 cycles of 94°C for 15 s, 55–57°C for 20 s, and 72°C for 45 s, with a final polymerization step at 72°C for 3 min. For RT-PCR analysis, 2 μg of each total RNA sample was treated with the RNase-free DNase according to manufacturer's instructions (Promega). Treated RNA samples were desalted (to prevent carry-over of magnesium) before cDNA synthesis using Microcon-100 spin columns (Millipore). The first-strand cDNA was synthesized using random hexamers and SuperscriptII reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen), according to manufacturer's instructions, and subsequently diluted with nuclease-free water (Sigma) to 12.5 ng μl−1 cDNA. Reactions were run on a thermocycler (model Mastercycler gradient; Eppendorf Canada Ltd., Mississauga, Ontario) using the same conditions as described above. Only seed batches that had been harvested and stored at the same time and under the same conditions were used. Seeds were sown on MS medium, vernalized at 4–8°C and then transferred to a tissue culture room under 16 h of light at 25°C/8 h of dark at 22°C. The germination rate (defined as the emergence of the hypocotyl axis through the seed coat) was determined at different days after seeds were placed for germination. Experiments were conducted in triplicate with 180 seeds for each experiment. For investigation of root growth, seeds were sterilized and grown on vertically oriented MS agar plates in a tissue culture room. Transgenic plants and wild-type plants were grown in adjacent parallel rows in the same Petri dishes (9 cm), 10 transgenic seedlings in one row and 10 wild-type seedlings in the other. After photos were taken, the number of lateral roots was counted under a dissecting microscope. The plants were placed on a flat glass and then main roots and lateral roots were straightened as much as possible using a forceps. A verniercalliper was used for measuring the length of main and lateral roots. For determination of root and shoot ratio, 10 day old plants were removed from plates, medium residues were cleaned from plants and plants were blotted dry using filter papers. Roots were cut off from stems (with leaves) and roots and shoots were dried in an oven. The dry matters were weighed and root:shoot ratio was calculated. For flowering assessment, 5 days after seed germination on MS medium, the seedlings were transferred into soil-containing pots. Twenty-six days after germination when plants started to show the rosette stage of leaf growth and plants showed sign of flowering, flowering was evaluated, which was based on plant bolting and the formation of flower buds. All tests were replicated three times and each replicate consisted of at least six independent lines. Stress treatments were initiated after plants were grown for 10–13 days in soil under regular conditions. Each treatment included six independent lines with three replicates for overexpression and wild type. The results presented in figures were calculated based on the values of all six independent lines and three replicates. The drought treatment was conducted by withholding water after seedlings were transplanted into pots. For cold treatment, plants were moved to a growth chamber at 2°C, and leaf samples were collected every 2 days. For salt stress, water containing 300 mmol per L of NaCl was evenly spayed on the soil surface and leaf samples were collected every 3 days. With the time extension under stresses, plant leaves gradually turned brown then dark brown. When 50% leaf area had turned brown, the leaf was counted as brown leaves. Leaves under salt stress gradually turned yellow and wilted. When 50% leaf area had turned yellow the leaf was recorded as withered leaves. Transient expression and stable expression of 35S:GFP and 35S:AtHD2D-GFP fusion protein in N. benthamiana leaves and Arabidopsis root tips were detected using laser fluorescence microscopy (Sparkes et al., CITATION). Photographs were taken using a confocal florescent microscope (Leica Microsystems, Germany) under excitation at 450–490 nm, emission at 520 nm and dichroic mirror at 510 nm. Malondialdehyde (MDA) content and electrolyte leakage were used to analyze stress damage to plants (Campos and Nunes, CITATION). For MDA analysis, the cell injury level was expressed as the content of MDA according to Zhang et al. (CITATION). Fresh leaves from each treatment were homogenized in 5 mL of 10% trichloroacetic acid (TCA), and then centrifuged at 4000x g for 20 min. To each 2 mL aliquot of the supernatant, 2 mL of 0.6% thiobarbituric acid in 10% TCA was added. The mixtures were heated at 100°C for 15 min and then quickly cooled in an ice bath. After centrifugation at 10,000x g for 20 min, the absorbance of the supernatant was recorded at 532 and 450 nm. Lipid peroxidation was expressed as the MDA content in nmol per g FW. For electrolyte leakage analysis, freshly cut leaf discs of 0.5 cm2 each were rinsed 3 times (2–3 min) with demineralized water and subsequently floated on 20 mL of demineralized water. The electrolyte leakage in the solution was measured after 24 h room temperature using a conductivity meter (Smart Stability, Orion, Thermo Scientific U.S.A). Total conductivity was obtained after the flasks were maintained in an oven (90°C) for 2 h. Data analysis was performed using SPSS 16.0.2 computer statistical program (IBM SPSS, 2008). The data are presented as the mean ± standard deviation of the mean (SD) and were tested for significant difference using Student's t-test. p < 0.05 was selected as the point of minimal significant difference in all of the analyses.
