!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! Ten Arabidopsis VAP homologues (Fig. 1a) were identified from a BLAST search using the MSD (Fig. 1b). Analysis based on full‐length protein sequences showed that VAP27 isoforms fall into three distinct clades. Although members within a clade can have different organizations of domains, all members of clade II, in particular, lack a TMD and have the MSD located centrally rather than at the amino terminus. The majority of VAP27 isoforms show expression across a variety of tissues, as shown by the Genevestigator analysis (Fig. 1c). In addition to many other tissues, VAP27‐1 and VAP27‐4 show a peak of transcription in pollen. The tissues in which we find the transcription of VAP27‐5 and 27‐7 are much more limited. VAP27‐5 is confined to the shoot, pollen and stele. VAP27‐7 is only found in the leaf, although transcription is also seen in the mesophyll and root primary cell culture.  [[FIGURE]] Five of the ten VAP27 proteins were used to make chimeric constructs with YFP at the C‐terminus. These constructs were used for Argobacterium‐mediated transient transfection of N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells in order to study their intracellular localization and behaviour. Our previous study showed that VAP27‐1 is an ER integral membrane protein which also localizes to EPCS (Wang et al., CITATION; Fig. 2a). A similar localization pattern was observed for VAP27‐3 (also known as PVA12; Saravanan et al., CITATION) and VAP27‐4, representative members of clades I and III, respectively. Both proteins localized to the ER network, confirmed by their co‐localization with cyan fluorescent protein‐HDEL (CFP‐HDEL), in addition to immobile punctate structures previously identified as EPCSs (Fig. 2b,c; Movie S1). At the cell periphery, VAP27‐1 puncta appeared to co‐localize with the PM (stained with FM4‐64, Fig. 2a, inset). Signals from the rest of the ER were very distinct from the PM (FM4‐64 labelled, red). By contrast, two members from clade II of the VAP27 family, namely YFP fusions of VAP27‐8 and VAP27‐10 (also known as AtMAMI; Galaud et al., CITATION), localized to the PM (Fig. 2d–f; Movie S2). They are very likely to be membrane peripheral proteins (as no TMD has been identified) recruited to the PM from a cytoplasmic pool. VAP27‐8‐YFP also labelled some immobile puncta (Fig. 2d) and was also found to be concentrated in the nucleolus (Fig. 2d, inset).  [[FIGURE]] NET3C belongs to a plant‐specific family of actin‐binding proteins, the NET family (Deeks et al., CITATION); it locates to the EPCS (Wang et al., CITATION). We have shown previously that VAP27‐1 co‐localizes and interacts with NET3C at these sites (Wang et al., CITATION). In this study, we showed that VAP27‐3‐YFP also co‐localizes with GFP‐NET3C at EPCS when co‐expressed in the transient expression system (Fig. 3a). We confirmed the physical interaction between red fluorescent protein‐VAP27‐3 (RFP‐VAP27‐3) and GFP‐NET3C in vivo using FRET‐FLIM microscopy (Fig. 3b–d). The fluorescent lifetime (LT) of GFP‐NET3C (donor complex) was found to be 2.61 ± 0.05 ns, which reduces significantly in the presence of RFP‐VAP27‐3 (LT = 2.41 ± 0.05 ns; P = 7.63E‐8), indicating that they interact in a complex. It should be noted that the lifetime of GFP‐NET3C in the nucleus does not change, as no VAP27‐3 is present, and this also acts as an internal control for this FRET‐FLIM study (Fig. 3d). A second negative control was carried out using GFP‐HDEL and RFP‐HDEL; the lifetime of GFP in cells expressing both constructs was measured at 2.66 ± 0.03 ns, and this indicates that these two proteins, which localize to the same compartment, do not interact and therefore do not undergo FRET (Fig. 3c).  [[FIGURE]] In order to assess the level of translational expression of VAP27‐1 and VAP27‐3, each gene was ligated in frame with GUS at the 3′ end of each open reading frame. Expression in Arabidopsis revealed that both proteins are expressed ubiquitously (Fig. 4a,b), similar to their predicted transcriptional expression profiles (Fig. 1c). Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells were then used for further immunolabelling studies.  [[FIGURE]] A polyclonal antibody raised against VAP27‐1 in mice yielded a single band on a western blot of a total protein extract from Arabidopsis seedlings at a molecular weight similar to that for VAP27‐1 (Fig. 4c). This antibody is specific to VAP27‐1 when compared with its cross‐reactivity to VAP27‐3 proteins, which have high overall sequence similarity (Fig. 4d). Cotyledons from a stable Arabidopsis line expressing VAP27‐1‐YFP were high pressure frozen and freeze substituted for TEM and immunogold studies. The area of association (marked in red) between the ER and PM was much enhanced by the expression of VAP27‐1. Gaps between the ER and PM were almost undetectable (Fig. 4e,f). Gold‐labelled VAP27‐1 was found throughout the ER network, as well as at the EPCS (arrow, Fig. 4g).  Immunofluorescence studies using Arabidopsis leaf epidermal cells identified endogenous VAP27‐1 on the ER network (which was stained by a BIP2 antibody), as well as on some ER‐associated puncta distinct from the BIP2‐labelled ER (Fig. 4h). The EPCS labelling of endogenous VAP27‐1 in Arabidopsis was not as pronounced as VAP27‐1‐YFP in the tobacco transient expression system, and this is probably because of the amount of protein present, with more VAP‐27‐1‐YFP being available in the transiently expressing cells. The VAP27‐1 signal was found at the same position as the BIP2 signal on the ER membrane. By contrast, VAP27‐1 and BIP2 were only partially co‐localized at the putative EPCS (Fig. S1). This makes sense because VAP27s (like yeast Scs2) are actively recruited to the EPCS, whereas other ER‐localized proteins are not.  Two strips of the same western blot of a one‐dimensional gel loaded with N. benthamiana leaf extract expressing VAP27‐1‐YFP were probed with VAP27‐1 antibody (1) and VAP27‐1 antibody co‐incubated with VAP‐27 peptide immunogen (2). Incubation of the VAP27‐1 peptide immunogen with the VAP27‐1 antibody abolished the ability of the antibody to detect a band on the western blot equivalent to VAP27‐1‐YFP, indicating the antibody's specificity for VAP27‐1 (Fig. 4j). Co‐incubation of the VAP27‐1 peptide immunogen with the VAP27‐1 antibody and the use of this mixture to stain Arabidopsis cells revealed no staining of the ER and EPCS in planta (Fig. 4i), further supporting the specificity of the VAP27‐1 antibody used in this study. In summary, the results from immunocytochemistry are consistent with the live cell imaging data, confirming VAP27‐1 as an ER network‐ and EPCS‐localized protein in plants. We suggest that VAP proteins from clades I and III, specifically VAP27‐3 and VAP27‐4, have a similar cellular location in Arabidopsis, as their sequences are very similar to VAP27‐1 (VAP27‐3, 84%; VAP27‐4, 57%) and their localization in N. benthamiana is the same (Fig. 2a–c).  Stably transformed Arabidopsis expressing VAP27‐1‐GFP, driven by its native promoter, exhibited a similar subcellular localization to that observed when using the same construct in the N. benthamiana transient expression system (Fig. 5a–c). Numerous ER‐associated puncta were identified, reminiscent of the EPCSs seen in leaf epidermal studies. However, these puncta were not seen in all cells. For example, in trichome development, EPCS labelling was only seen in mature trichomes (stage 6) and was not found in the earlier developmental stages (stages 1–4) (Fig. 5d,e). This is either because EPCS may not exist in this type of cell, or other proteins may be involved in EPCS formation. VAP27‐1‐labelled EPCSs were found in close association with both the microtubule and actin cytoskeletons (Fig. 5g–i) in trichomes of the Arabidopsis stably transformed lines and in transiently expressing N. benthamiana leaf epidermal cells (Fig. S2a–f). In Arabidopsis trichomes, for example, the percentages of EPCSs that were associated with the actin cytoskeleton and with microtubules were found to be 81.2 ± 4.3% and 70.4 ± 14.3%, respectively. A random association assessed by rotating the red channel (e.g. RFP‐Lifeact) by 180° with respect to the green channel (VAP27‐1‐GFP) gave a percentage association of 40.1 ± 7.75%, which is significantly lower than the percentage association between EPCS and actin or microtubules, indicating that their association with the cytoskeleton is a valid result.  [[FIGURE]] VAP27‐1‐labelled EPCSs are often located at the cross‐overs between F‐actin and microtubules (Fig. S2d–f). This result supports the observation that part of the ER subdomain interacts with microtubules, forming so‐called C‐MERs (cortical microtubule‐associated ER sites; Pena & Heinlein, CITATION). However, these contact sites do not appear to be maintained by the cytoskeleton, as they still exist when either F‐actin or microtubules are removed by drug treatments (Fig. S2g–i).  A population of VAP27‐1‐YFP‐labelled EPCSs also associated with PDs, as revealed by the co‐localization of aniline blue staining of callose (Fig. 6a), suggesting that PDs may perform a similar function to the EPCS at the cell–cell border in terms of anchoring the peripheral ER. In this context, it is known that the desmotubule of PDs is made up of highly constricted ER membrane (Wright et al., CITATION; Fitzgibbon et al., CITATION; Knox et al., CITATION) and, as such, a role of VAPs in anchoring the peripheral ER to the plasmodesmal channel is an attractive hypothesis.  [[FIGURE]] Leaf epidermal cells expressing VAP27‐1 were treated with mannitol to induce plasmolysis, designed to separate the PM from the cell wall (the PM in Fig. 6b,c is labelled with a fluorescence marker, PIP2‐CFP). As a consequence, hechtian strands were found in the plasmolysed cells that link the cell wall and PM (Lang‐Pauluzzi, CITATION; Fig. 6b,c). Surprisingly, most of the VAP27‐1‐labelled EPCSs were found within or at the tips of hechtian strands (Fig. 6c,d). Thus, we suggest that the plant ER/PM complex must interact indirectly with the cell wall through some PM‐localized proteins, which holds them together during plasmolysis, whilst the rest of the ER network is separated from the cell periphery (Fig. 6d).  Subsequently, protoplasts were isolated from VAP27‐1‐YFP‐transformed leaves to study the influence of the cell wall on the EPCS (Movie S3). After photobleaching, the recovery of VAP27‐1 at the EPCS was calculated as 74.45 ± 15.9% (Fig. 6f,g). It is known that the cell wall can be regenerated around protoplasts (Martiniere et al., CITATION). No cell wall staining was seen at 0 h when the protoplasts were freshly prepared, whereas staining was seen at c. 24 h after isolation (Fig. 6e). When the cell wall reformed, the maximum recovery of VAP27‐1 was reduced to 57.48 ± 10.4%, significantly different from its recovery at 0 h (P < 0.001). These differences in the percentage recovery indicate that the immobile fraction of VAP27‐1 within the photobleached region is greater when the cell wall has regenerated. This also indicates that the association between VAP27‐1‐labelled EPCSs and the cell wall makes VAP27‐1 largely immobile. However, the half‐time of recovery at both time points (0 and 24 h) did not change significantly (P > 0.2), indicating that the dynamics of VAP27‐1 in the photobleached regions at 0 h and c. 24 h are similar.  In conclusion, these results indicate that the cell wall affects the percentage recovery of the EPCS‐associated protein, VAP27‐1. We suggest that this phenomenon is a result of the interaction of VAP27‐1 with a protein that both spans the PM and interacts with the cell wall and the EPCSs at either terminus, or that VAP27‐1 associates with a PM subdomain whose mobility is constricted by the cell wall. Recently, the physical association of the cell wall with the PM has been implicated in the anchoring of many different proteins in the PM (Martiniere et al., CITATION). Both scenarios could affect the protein dynamics at the PM, and subsequently the EPCS (Fig. 6h).  High‐level expression of constructs in the N. benthamiana transient system can be obtained by increasing the optical density of the agrobacteria used for infiltration (Batoko et al., CITATION). When highly expressed, VAP27‐1 interacts with NET3C and induces the formation of membrane cisternae, which are labelled by CFP‐HDEL, suggesting that these cisternae are ER derived (Fig. 7a). EPCS labelling may still be seen in some parts of the cell (Fig. 7a, arrow), but the significant deformation of the ER membrane makes these sites difficult to resolve. These ER‐derived membrane cisternae are closely attached to the PM, as seen by the close association with FM4‐64 fluorescence at the cell cortex (Fig. 7b,c; also compare with Fig. 1a, inset). Some filament‐like structures in negative contrast can be observed within the membrane cisternae (Fig. 7d, arrow), and these co‐localize with microtubules (labelled with the kinesin motor domain fused to RFP; KMD‐RFP). This microtubule‐related pattern in membranes has been described previously in several studies of PM integral proteins. This is probably a result of the corralling of PM proteins by cortical microtubules (Martiniere & Runions, CITATION). Not surprisingly, these negative images of microtubules disappear when microtubules are depolymerized by APM treatment (Fig. 7e).  [[FIGURE]] The enhanced association between the ER and PM is only seen when both VAP27‐1 and NET3C are present, and expression of VAP27‐1 alone does not induce this phenomenon (Fig. 2a). This result suggests that only a small fraction of ER membrane can interact with PM‐associated NET3C to form the EPCS under native conditions, when both VAP27 and NET3C expression are limiting. However, an excess level of both proteins appears to ‘glue’ the entire cortical ER system to the PM and induce this abnormal cellular phenotype (Fig. 7f).  Three distinct functional domains are found in VAP27‐1, namely an N‐terminal MSD, a C‐terminal TMD and a CCD. Domain deletion mutants of VAP27‐1 were prepared and fused to YFP (Fig. 8a). VAP27‐1∆TMD was found to be cytosolic (Fig. 8e); VAP27‐1∆CCD‐YFP was still ER localized, but less puncta were observed than for full‐length VAP27 (Fig. 8c). The numbers of puncta were found to be 7.2 ± 3.1 per 30 × 30 μm2 for VAP27‐1∆CCD compared with 31.4 ± 5.8 per 30 × 30 μm2 for full‐length VAP27‐1. VAP27‐1∆MSD‐YFP formed numerous ER‐derived puncta, most of which were much more mobile than the full‐length VAP27‐1 puncta at EPCSs (Fig. 8d; Movie S4). Similar results were also obtained from a deletion study of another clade I VAP27, VAP27‐3 (Fig. S3a–c). Little alteration of the ER network was seen in either VAP27 full‐length‐ (Fig. 2) or deletion mutant‐expressing cells (Fig. S3d–f). Therefore, the anchoring of the ER to the PM in plants may be complex and is likely to involve multiple proteins, including the association with NET3C (Wang et al., CITATION) and, possibly, synaptotagmins (Perez‐Sancho et al., CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] Protein dynamics within these puncta were studied using FRAP (Fig. 8b). The maximum recovery of VAP27‐1∆CCD was found to be reduced (Rmax = 38.86 ± 18.5%) compared with full‐length VAP27‐1 (Rmax = 54.22 ± 18.2%; P < 0.05). VAP27‐1∆MSD showed almost no recovery over the same period (Fig. 8b). These results indicate that both MSD and CCD are important for the localization of VAP27 at the EPCS and most likely protein dynamics within the membrane, whereas the TMD determines the ER localization of VAP27‐1. Previously, we have identified a functional motif on the MSD required for the interaction between VAP27‐1 and NET3C (Wang et al., CITATION). This result is consistent with an observation from the co‐expression of NET3C with VAP27‐1 deletion mutants in this study. That is, co‐localization of GFP‐NET3C is only seen with VAP27‐1∆TMD which contains the intact MSD (Fig. 8g), whereas no co‐localization is seen between NET3C and VAP27‐1∆MSD (Fig. 8f).  We stably transformed Arabidopsis, producing lines expressing VAP27‐1‐GFP or VAP27‐3‐GFP driven by their native promoters. As we have shown that the GFP constructs localize to the EPCS in a pattern also observed using anti‐VAP27‐1 in planta, and that, from yeast studies, chimeric Scs2‐reporter proteins (homologue of VAP27) are functional (Loewen et al., CITATION), these constructs are likely to be functional in plants. These plants exhibit defects in pollen, seed and root development. The most notable defect is in root hair development, where hairs appear branched (compare Fig. 9a with Fig. 9b, arrow). High magnification images of these abnormal root hairs are shown in Fig. 9(i). This phenotype is also observed in VAP27‐1 RNAi lines (Fig. 9c, arrow), which show a significant knock‐down of endogenous VAP27‐1 protein expression (Fig. 9f,g). A root hair phenotype is also seen in plants expressing VAP27‐3‐GFP, as well as in VAP27‐3 RNAi lines (Fig. 9d,e). The percentage of branched root hairs was calculated for each line and there were c. 40% abnormal root hairs in the VAP27‐GFP‐expressing lines, and c. 15–20% in VAP27 RNAi lines (Fig. 9h). These observations were consistent in more than three independent transformed lines. It is interesting that a similar phenomenon is seen in either VAP27 gain‐of‐function or loss‐of‐function studies. These data suggest that tight control of VAP27 expression is essential. A similar phenomenon is observed when the actin regulating protein, actin depolymerizing factor, is both over‐expressed and knocked down (Dong et al., CITATION).  [[FIGURE]] In the VAP27‐1‐expressing lines, both the ER and actin networks in the branched root hair were significantly different from those in the wild‐type (Fig. 9j,k). VAP27‐1‐labelled ER membrane aggregates formed at the point at which the root hairs branched and the actin network appeared disorganized in this zone (Fig. 9k). Root hair phenotypes have been observed previously when certain ER‐ or F‐actin‐regulating proteins are disrupted (Deeks et al., CITATION; Guimil & Dunand, CITATION).  In conclusion, the VAP27 protein family was identified and representative candidates were selected for further functional characterization. Proteins from clades I and III localized to the ER network as well as the EPCSs, whereas members of clade II were found at the PM. The functions of the different domains were characterized using VAP27‐1 and 27‐3 as examples. We demonstrated that MSD and CCD are required for protein–protein interaction and that TMD is required for intracellular localization. Pleiotropic defects were seen in plants expressing VAP27‐GFP and also in VAP27 RNAi lines, suggesting that they are essential for normal plant development. Our results also suggest an indirect association between EPCSs and the cell wall, probably mediated through interaction with PM‐associated proteins. 
!~MM~! Multiple alignments were assembled in ClustalX (Larkin et al., CITATION) and exported as graphics using Jalview (Waterhouse et al.., CITATION). Domains were identified with the Simple Modular Architecture Research Tool, SMART (Schultz et al., CITATION), Interpro (Hunter et al., CITATION) Coils (Lupas et al., CITATION) and TMHMM (Sonnhammer et al., CITATION). The maximum likelihood method was chosen for the VAP family phylogenetic tree, as this method has been identified as one of the most robust optimality criteria. Maximum likelihood trees were calculated in the MetaPIGA software package (Helaers & Milinkovitch, CITATION), using stochastic heuristics for large phylogeny inference with the Metapopulation Genetic Algorithm (metaGA; Lemmon & Milinkovitch, CITATION). metaGA is an evolutionary computation heuristic in which several populations of trees exchange topological information which is used to guide the Genetic Algorithm (GA) operators for much faster convergence. MetaPIGA calculations were stopped when the mean relative error of 10 consecutive consensus trees stayed below 5% using trees sampled every five generations, or the likelihood stopped increasing after 200 iterations. Trees were drawn and exported as graphical files from FigTree (Andrew Rambout, University of Edinburgh, UK). Transcription profiles of VAP isoforms were generated with Genevestigator (Zimmermann et al., CITATION; NEBION/ETH Zurich, Switzerland) from publicly available DNA microarray data.  The primers and plasmids used in vector constructions are listed in Supporting Information Tables S1 and S2 respectively. The VAP27 full‐length cDNAs were amplified by reverse transcription‐polymerase chain reaction (RT‐PCR) (Invitrogen, UK) with gene‐specific primers (Table S1). Fluorescent protein fusions to VAPs were made using Gateway recombination (Invitrogen) into various destination vectors, as shown in Table S2. Full‐length VAP27s, as well as the MSD, coiled‐coil domain (CCD) and transmembrane domain (TMD) deletion mutants of VAP27‐1 and 27‐3, were generated using PCR with appropriate primers. The VAP27‐3 Arabidopsis RNAi line was obtained from AGRIKOLA (Hilson et al., CITATION) and the RNAi insertion was confirmed using AGRIKOLA‐specific primers (Table S1). The VAP27‐1 RNAi construct obtained from AGRIKOLA was subcloned into the pHELLSGATE RNAi vector (Wesley et al., CITATION) and transformed into Col‐0 Arabidopsis.  Arabidopsis (Col‐0) was grown on compost in a growth chamber with a 16 h (22°C) : 8 h (18°C), light : dark regime. Nicotiana benthamiana plants were maintained in a growth room with a 16 h (25°C) : 8 h (18°C), light : dark regime. Transient expression was performed by leaf infiltration using N. benthamiana with Agrobacterium (Sparkes et al., CITATION). Stable transformed Arabidopsis lines were generated using floral dipping (Zhang et al., CITATION). The VAP27‐1 and 27‐3 genomic sequences (including promoter and open reading frame) were fused in frame (without the termination codon) to the 5′ end of the GUS reporter sequence. Stable GUS plants were obtained by selecting floral‐dipped seeds on half‐strength Murashige & Skoog (MS) medium containing kanamycin. GUS staining and histological studies were performed as described in Deeks et al. (CITATION).  VAP27‐1 cDNA corresponding to amino‐acid residues 164–230 was cloned into the pET28a plasmid (Novagen, Darmstadt, Germany) which incorporates an N‐terminal histidine (His) tag into the expressed protein (see Table S1 for the primers used). Recombinant proteins were generated in Escherichia coli (Rosseta 2; Novagen) and purified using nickel agarose beads (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). Polyclonal antibodies were raised in mice as described by Ketelaar et al. (CITATION). The specificity of the antiserum was tested on a one‐dimensional gel western blot of a total protein extract from 14‐d‐old Arabidopsis seedlings. For detection, the membrane was incubated in TBST (Tris‐HCl, pH 7.5 50 mM; NaCl, 150 mM; Tween 20, 0.05%) buffer with 5% milk before primary antibody (1 : 500–1000) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP)‐conjugated secondary anti‐mouse immunoglobulin G (IgG) (1 : 3000) incubation, and developed using ECL reagent (GE Healthcare, Amersham, UK). A PageRuler pre‐stained protein ladder (Life Technologies, Paisley, UK) was included on the western blot. Immunofluorescence with freeze shattering was performed as described by Zhang et al. (CITATION). Antibodies were diluted and used at 1 : 300 for VAP27 and 1 : 500 for BIP2 (Agrisera, Vännäs, Sweden), followed by secondary antibody incubation with tetramethylrhodamine‐conjugated anti‐mouse IgG and fluorescein isothiocyanate‐conjugated anti‐rabbit (Jackson ImmunoResearch, West Grove, PA, USA).  All the microscopy images in this article are representative of more than three independent infiltrations or stable transformations.  Samples were imaged using laser scanning confocal microscopes (LSCMs; Leica SP5, Milton Keynes, UK). Images were taken in multi‐track mode with line switching when multifluorescence was used. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) experiments and data analyses were performed as described by Wang et al. (CITATION), using a minimum number of 15 areas of interest which were bleached from different cells. During the photobleaching step, full output from the laser line was used and low laser intensities (1% 514 nm for YFP) were employed for data collection. The difference in maximum recovery was analysed using Student's t‐test to confirm the statistical significance. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer‐fluorescence lifetime imaging (FRET‐FLIM) analysis was performed as described by Wang et al. (CITATION); 12 repetitions were performed for each sample. Protoplasts were prepared using infiltrated leaves of N. benthamiana. Leaves were cut with a blade every 2 mm and placed in a Petri dish containing enzyme mix (macerozyme, 0.2%; cellulose, 0.4%) with K3 buffer (B5 basal medium, 3.78 g l−1; CaCl2, 750 mg l−1; NH4NO3, 250 mg l−1; sucrose, 136.2 g l−1; xylose, 250 mg l−1; 6‐benzylaminopurine, 1 mg l−1; naphthaleneacetic acid, 1 mg l−1). Digestion was carried out overnight at room temperature. The enzyme mix was removed the next day, and cells were suspended in K3 buffer for microscopy studies. The cell wall was stained with calcofluor as described by Martiniere et al. (CITATION). PM staining was performed by immersing small leaf segments in water solution containing FM4‐64 (7.5 μm; Sigma) for 10 min. Plasmodesmata (PDs) were labelled using aniline blue as described by Deeks et al. (CITATION). Cytoskeleton depolymerization drug treatment in this study was performed by incubating small leaf segments (3 × 3 mm2) in a solution containing latruculin b (25 μM for 30–45 min), oryzalin (20 μM for 30–45 min) or amiprophos‐methyl (APM; 50 μM for 60–90 min).  Plant tissue was fixed by high‐pressure freezing and freeze substitution, as described by Deeks et al. (CITATION). VAP27 anti‐serum was used at 1 : 100 dilutions and detected by 5‐nm gold‐conjugated anti‐mouse IgG.  The Arabidopsis genome initiative locus tags for VAP27 genes are as follows: At3g60600 (VAP27‐1), At1g08820 (VAP27‐2), At2g45140 (VAP27‐3), At5g47180 (VAP27‐4), At2g23820 (VAP27‐5), At4g00170 (VAP27‐6), At1g51270 (VAP27‐7), At4g21450 (VAP27‐8), At4g05060 (VAP27‐9) and At5g54110 (VAP27‐10). 
