!~ABS~! The small molecule DFPM ([5-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)furan-2-yl]-piperidine-1-ylmethanethione) was recently shown to trigger signal transduction via early effector-triggered immunity signaling genes including EDS1 and PAD4 in Arabidopsis thaliana accession Col-0. Chemical genetic analyses of A. thaliana natural variants identified the plant Resistance protein-like Toll/Interleukin1 Receptor (TIR)-Nucleotide Binding (NB)-Leucine-Rich Repeat (LRR) protein VICTR as required for DFPM-mediated root growth arrest. Here a chemical genetic screen for mutants which disrupt DFPM-mediated root growth arrest in the Col-0 accession identified new mutant alleles of the TIR-NB-LRR gene VICTR. One allele, victr-6, carries a Gly216-to-Asp mutation in the Walker A domain supporting an important function of the VICTR nucleotide binding domain in DFPM responses consistent with VICTR acting as a canonical Resistance protein. The essential nucleo-cytoplasmic regulator of TIR-NB-LRR-mediated effector-triggered immunity, EDS1, was reported to have both nuclear and cytoplasmic actions in pathogen resistance. DFPM was used to investigate the requirements for subcellular EDS1 localization in DFPM-mediated root growth arrest. EDS1-YFP fusions engineered to localize mainly in the cytoplasm or the nucleus by tagging with a nuclear export signal (NES) or a nuclear localization signal (NLS), respectively, were tested. We found that wild-type EDS1-YFP and both the NES and NLS-tagged EDS1 variants were induced by DFPM treatments and fully complemented eds1 mutant plants in root responses to DFPM, suggesting that enrichment of EDS1 in either compartment could confer DFPM-mediated root growth arrest. We further found that a light and O2-dependent modification of DFPM is necessary to mediate DFPM signaling in roots. Chemical analyses including Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry and High-Resolution Atmospheric Pressure Chemical Ionization Mass Spectrometry identified a DFPM modification product that is likely responsible for bioactivity mediating root growth arrest. We propose a chemical structure of this product and a possible reaction mechanism for DFPM modification.
!~RES~! Natural variation in the VICTR locus and T-DNA insertion mutants were used initially to identify and characterize functions of VICTR [CITATION]. Although T-DNA insertion lines represent a powerful tool to study full gene loss-of-function defects, they rarely contribute to a better understanding of the protein structure. Approximately 10,000 M2 individuals from 24 different parental groups of an EMS mutagenized population (Col-0 accession) were screened using the DFPM-mediated root growth arrest as a readout. In the initial screen, 38 DFPM insensitive individuals were isolated. The identified DFPM insensitive mutants were backcrossed to the victr-1 T-DNA insertion line [CITATION] and subsequently investigated for allelism in the F1 generation using the DFPM-induced root growth arrest assay. Three mutants that fell into the same VICTR-linked complementation group were backcrossed to Col-0 wild-type plants and investigated in detail by sequencing the entire VICTR locus of the resulting F2 individuals to test for functionally crucial amino acids in VICTR. As shown in a VICTR protein schematic (CITATION), three independent point mutations in the VICTR gene were identified and characterized. The first EMS mutant victr-6 carries a glycine 216 to aspartic acid mutation in the conserved nucleotide-binding site of the VICTR TIR-NB-LRR protein. Gly 216 is part of the Walker A motif, or P-loop, that has the general consensus sequence GX4GK[T/S] [CITATION]. Since the adjacent lysine residue in the Walker A motif is needed to coordinate β- and γ-phosphates of the bound NTP and indispensible for activation of Resistance proteins [CITATION, CITATION, CITATION], the loss of this highly conserved glycine in victr-6 is predicted to diminish ADP/ATP binding to the NB domain and hydrolysis. A) Overview and amino acid changes (marked with stars) in three newly isolated EMS mutants in the VICTR locus. B) EMS point mutants in VICTR (Col-0), victr-6, victr-7 and victr-8, showed insensitivity to DFPM similarly to T-DNA mutant victr-1 whereas the wild-type Col-0 control was fully arrested in root growth assays. The black horizontal bars mark the root tip position when plants were exposed to 10 μM DFPM. The vertical grey bars separate the indicated genotypes grown on the same plate for clarity. C) Quantitative analyses of root growth assays shown in B). With 10 μM DFPM all three EMS victr point mutants and victr-1 showed a similar DFPM insensitivity compared to the their growth in 0 μM DFPM. Wild type Col-0 showed a strong inhibition in root growth upon DFPM treatment. Error bars represent SEM (n = 7–18 seedlings for 10 μM DFPM, n = 3–17 for 0 μM DFPM). In victr-7 and victr-8, respectively, the mutations were in a non-conserved portion of the protein C-terminal to the LRR domain (CITATION). The victr-7 and victr-8 mutations were located at two of the few positions which vary between VICTR and its closest homologue, VICTL1. In victr-7, valine 1040 is replaced by leucine, which is the amino acid at the same position in VICTL1. The third EMS mutagenized line, victr-8 had a mutation close to the 3’ end of the VICTR coding sequence. This mutation results in an arginine 1161 to histidine exchange (CITATION). In our earlier studies, we documented protein-protein interaction of VICTR with EDS1 in the nucleus and that DFPM-triggered VICTR-mediated root growth arrest requires EDS1 function [CITATION]. In line with this finding, eds1-2 mutant plants exhibit DFPM insensitivity in roots and leaves [CITATION, CITATION]. To expand on these results showing interdependency, we tested VICTR gene expression in eds1-2 mutants compared to wild-type controls (CITATION). Interestingly, we found that full induction of VICTR gene expression by DFPM requires EDS1. However, significant residual VICTR transcript induction was detectable in eds1-2 mutants indicating that VICTR induction does not exclusively depend on EDS1 (CITATION). EDS1 is a nucleo-cytoplasmic protein [CITATION]. Experiments employing the Pseudomonas syringae bacterial pathogen as a trigger of EDS1-dependent ETI or basal immunity suggested that nucleo-cytoplasmic trafficking through the nuclear pore complex is important for full pathogen resistance in leaves [CITATION, CITATION]. We utilized eds1-2 transgenic lines (in Col-0 accession) NES #2–11 and NES #3–4 that express functional EDS1-YFP fused to a C-terminal nuclear export sequence (EDS1-YFP-NES) [CITATION]. This fusion caused EDS1 to accumulate mainly in the cytoplasm of leaf cells and produced intermediate pathogen resistance in leaves [CITATION]. As controls, a line expressing EDS1-YFP alone (EDS1-YFP) or EDS1-YFP fused to a mutated, inactive NES (EDS1-YFP-nes) (nes #1–2) were also tested. These conferred full pathogen resistance in leaf assays [CITATION]. In a complementary approach, eds1-2 transgenic lines NLS #A5 and NLS #B2 expressing high and low amounts, respectively, of EDS1-YFP fused to a C-terminal SV40 nuclear localization signal (NLS) which targets EDS1 to the nucleus [CITATION], were examined. All transgenic EDS1-YFP constructs were expressed under the native EDS1 promoter [CITATION, CITATION]. With these transgenic materials, we investigated whether cytoplasmic or nuclear enrichment of EDS1-YFP alters the efficiency of the DFPM-triggered root growth arrest response. Localization of EDS1-YFP mainly to the cytoplasm (in lines NES #3–4 and NES #2–11) or the nucleus (in lines NLS #A5 and NLS #B2) was observed previously in confocal live-cell fluorescence imaging and biochemical fractionation experiments performed on leaf tissues [CITATION, CITATION]. Because DFPM triggers growth arrest in roots, we performed fluorescence imaging of root cells to verify the subcellular localization of the EDS1 fusion constructs. Notably, a fluorescence signal for EDS1-YFP was barely detectable in untreated roots (CITATION, control). Application of 10 μM DFPM for 24 h led to a strong increase in the fluorescence signal in roots including meristematic and elongation zones (CITATION, DFPM). This observation is consistent with EDS1 transcript accumulation upon DFPM exposure found in whole seelings [CITATION] and the same DFPM-induction was seen in all tested EDS1-YFP mislocalized lines (CITATION, CITATION). To verify the fluorescence-based results on DFPM-induced EDS1 expression in root tissues, we carried out qPCR analyses and confirmed that EDS1 gene transcription is increased by DFPM treatments in a dose-dependent fashion (CITATION). EDS1 was also found to be upregulated in shoot tissues in response to DFPM (CITATION). A) EDS1-YFP localization in the root of EDS1-YFP, EDS1-YFP-NES and EDS1-YFP-NLS in eds1-2. All transgenic EDS1-YFP constructs were driven by the native EDS1 promoter. Interestingly, EDS1-YFP signals increased after 24 hours of 10 μM DFPM application compared to the non-treated controls. Scale bar applies to all 6 images. Confocal gain and pinhole parameters were identical in all six images. At least 3 plants were observed for DFPM treated condition. B-C) Both NES- or NLS-tagged EDS1 protein versions expressed in eds1-2 were capable of complementing the eds1-2 phenotype in DFPM-mediated primary root growth arrest. Seven day-old seedlings were exposed to 10 μM DFPM. Three days after treatment, two independent lines of EDS1-YFP-NES and EDS1-YFP-NLS showed the same DFPM sensitivity as wild-type Col-0 and EDS1-YFP control (B, C). A mutated control EDS1-YFP-nes also showed a similar sensitivity to DFPM. Means with different letters are grouped based on two-way ANOVA and Tukey’s test, P < 0.05). Error bars represent SD (n = 8 to 12 seedlings per condition for 10 μM DFPM, n = 2 to 4 for 0 μM DFPM). Representative plants are shown in (C). The black horizontal bars mark the root tip position when plants were exposed to DFPM. The vertical black bars separate the indicated genotypes grown on the same plate for clarity. Wild-type EDS1-YFP localized in the cytoplasm and the nucleus of root cells (CITATION). By contrast, EDS1-YFP in line NES #3–4 exhibited YFP signals predominatly in the cytoplasm (CITATION). A clear reduction in nuclear YFP fluorescence was observed in nuclei from root cells including the root meristemic zone (CITATION), elongation zone and differentiation zone of NES #3–4. An opposite pattern was observed for EDS1-YFP in NLS lines #A5 and #B2 in which fluorescence was detected in nuclei of root cells (CITATION, CITATION). As expected, the control line EDS1-YFP-nes #1–2 exhibited YFP signals in the cytoplasm and the nucleus of root cells (CITATION). Together, these findings suggest that subcellular localization of DFPM-induced EDS1-YFP can be modulated in roots. We found that both NES-tagged and NLS-tagged EDS1-YFP proteins fully complemented the eds1-2 mutant in response to DFPM (CITATION). In EDS1-YFP-NES lines #2–11 and #3–4, DFPM-mediated root growth arrest responses were equivalent to those of wild-type Col-0 and EDS1-YFP, showing significant root growth arrest at 3 d after exposure to 10 μM DFPM (CITATION). The EDS1-YFP-nes #1–2 control line also exhibited root growth arrest in response to DFPM treatment. As observed in earlier studies, the eds1-2 mutant without EDS1 transgenes was insensitive to DFPM treatment [CITATION, CITATION] (CITATION). EDS1-YFP-NLS line #A5 (a high EDS1-YFP expressor) and #B2 (low EDS1-YFP expressor) [CITATION] also showed a wild-type like response (CITATION). We concluded that EDS1 can trigger effectively DFPM-triggered root growth arrest when directed to the cytoplasmic or nuclear compartments of root cells. Previously, DFPM was shown to cause a rapid root growth arrest of primary roots in Col-0 wild-type plants [CITATION, CITATION]. This effect is dependent on EDS1 and PAD4, which are also needed to regulate cell death at pathogen infection sites [CITATION, CITATION, CITATION]. To obtain further insights into the DFPM-mediated root growth arrest, root cell viability of DFPM-treated tissues was investigated using fluorescein diacetate (FDA) staining [CITATION]. The green fluorescence signal of fluorescein, an FDA metabolite, is a positive indicator for cell viability. When 10 day-old Col-0 wild-type seedlings were exposed to DFPM-containing media with increasing concentrations from 0.5 to 10 μM for 24 hours, FDA fluorescence signals from root tip tissues decreased in a DFPM concentration-dependent manner compared to non-treated controls (CITATION). DFPM concentrations above 3 μM led to a strong FDA fluorescence signal reduction (IC50 = ~ 0.378 μM; CITATION). A) Root cell viability of Col-0 root tissues decreased as concentrations of DFPM increased. Wild-type (Col-0) seedlings were exposed to the indicated concentrations of DFPM or DMSO (control) for 24 hours and cell viability was visualized by staining with fluorescein diacetate (FDA) dye. B) Fluorescence intensity of FDA was measured in root tips exposed to different concentrations of DFPM from 0.5 to 10 μM. (n = 3–11 per condition. error bars represent s.e.m.) C) Roots of the DFPM-insensitive Ler accession [CITATION] and victr-1 mutant (Col-0) seedlings exhibited a marginal decrease in cell viability staining after exposure to 3 μM DFPM for 24 hours. Constant gain and pinhole parameters were used for all images. VICTR is necessary and sufficient for DFPM-triggered primary root growth arrest [CITATION]. Because of the absence of a functional VICTR allele in the Landsberg erecta (Ler) accession, Ler accession seedlings showed DFPM insensitivity to a similar extent to the victr-1 T-DNA insertion mutant [CITATION]. Ler seedlings exposed to 3 μM DFPM exhibited a marginal decrease in FDA signal compared to mock treated wild-type Ler control (CITATION). Similarly, in victr-1 FDA signals were mildly reduced after exposure to 3 μM DFPM (CITATION). These results suggest that in the presence of a functional VICTR locus, DFPM application causes reduced cell viability which correlates with DFPM-induced root growth arrest. Similar to many other compounds from commercial chemical libraries, DFPM represents a colored, sparingly aqueous soluble, nonpolar substance (https://scifinder.cas.org) [CITATION] that is solubilized in a DMSO stock solution. Research on storing conditions of screening compounds has revealed that prolonged storage of organic substances even in DMSO may result in a partial chemical degradation of the substance [CITATION]. This effect is mainly due to DMSO slowly reacting with certain classes of chemical compounds or slowly decomposing in the presence of water, organic or inorganic acids, and strong oxidizing agents [CITATION]. Inevitably, these effects are not limited to the storage process but might also occur during bioassays when the DMSO-dissolved screening compounds are mixed with aqueous solutions. At concentrations higher than 30 μM in aqueous buffers, DFPM is insoluble and can be detected by the occurrence of scatter and yellow cloudiness in the dilution. Moreover, in analyses of the stability of DFPM, we found that after 6 hours at room temperature, our freshly prepared working dilutions in water lost their typical yellow color (CITATION). Interestingly, if an aliquot from the same original dilution was protected from light a less-pronounced loss of color was detectable visually (CITATION). A) After 6 hours in the light a clear loss of the yellow color can be detected in an aqueous 30 μM DFPM solution. B) UV-Vis absorbance scans of 30 μM DFPM solution. The fresh solution exhibits a characteristic maximum peak at around 360 nm. This peak was absent if the solution was kept in the light for 6 hours. Less pronounced decay was observed if the solution was protected from light. C) The bioactivity of DFPM is dependent on the presence of light. No growth arrest was found if roots were treated for 24 hours with DFPM in the dark (right), while Col-0 wild type plants treated with DFPM in the presence of light exhibited root growth arrest (left). After 24 hours of DFPM treatment seedlings were retransferred to 1/2 MS without DFPM to recover, and 3 days after retransfer the image was taken. Black horizontal bars indicate the primary root lengths at the time of retransfer. The black vertical bar separates two groups with different light treatments prior to retransferring to the same plate for recovery. D) FDA staining of 1 week-old seedlings treated with 15 μM DFPM for 6 hours. Cell viability was significantly reduced, only if light was present in combination with DFPM. Asterisk stands for P < 0.0001. This observation was confirmed by ultraviolet-visible spectral (UV-Vis) scans (CITATION). In the case of a fresh 30 μM DFPM solution a characteristic maximum absorbance peak at around 360 nm was detected. If the solution was exposed to light, this peak disappeared and the solution turned colorless. Less pronounced decrease in the absorbance and a broader peak were measured for dark-stored samples (CITATION). To test whether the light and solvent dependent conversion has an impact on the bioactivity of DFPM, independent experimental procedures were designed. First, a rescue of root growth arrest assay was performed. As shown earlier, a temporary exposure of Col-0 wild-type seedlings to 10 μM DFPM for as little as 8 hours is sufficient to induce a complete root growth arrest [CITATION]. Intriguingly, if plants were treated with 10 μM DFPM in the dark for 24 h, wild-type roots did not show a root growth arrest (CITATION, right). Thus after rescue of seedlings to a ½ MS plate without DFPM, wild-type roots that had been exposed to DFPM in the dark continued to grow and were indistinguishable from DFPM-insensitive victr mutant plants. However, if plants were exposed to DFPM in the same condition, but in the presence of light, a significant root growth arrest was observed in wild-type Col-0 (CITATION, left). In addition, a 96 well plate reader assay was established to quantify the DFPM-induced decrease in cell viability. For this experiment 7 day-old Col-0 seedlings were treated with 15 μM DFPM for 6 hours either in the presence or absence of light. Afterwards, an FDA staining was performed and fluorescence signals were analyzed. As shown in CITATION, only when DFPM was applied in combination with light a clear decrease in cell viability was detected. The cell viability in the presence of light was also lower compared to DFPM incubation in the dark. The light-dependent DFPM conversion raised the question after DFPM loses its yellow color in the presence of light, whether this colorless DFPM derived solution would maintain its bioactivity. To test this hypothesis, Col-0 wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings were exposed to 10 μM DFPM containing plates in the light. After 24 hours when the DFPM growth medium became colorless, one half of the seedlings were left on the same DFPM medium plates (CITATION) and the other half was re-transferred to a fresh DFPM medium. Re-transfer was repeated every 24 hours for four consecutive days (CITATION). Images were taken 7 days after the first transfer for both re-transfer and single transfer groups. The condition with the single transfer to the DFPM medium (CITATION) reflects the previously used assay [CITATION]. While both DFPM conditions mediated irreversible primary root growth arrest, lateral root growth as well as shoot growth was further strongly compromised in the re-transfer group (CITATION). DFPM-tolerant victr plants maintained growth of primary roots in both experiments (CITATION). These data indicate that, although light exposure is required for DFPM bioactivity in root tissues (CITATION), prolonged exposure to light in DFPM-containing MS growth media seems to reduce DFPM bioactivity eventually. A) Transfer of wild-type Col-0 plants to DFPM medium one time inhibited primary root growth, while lateral roots could elongate further (arrowheads). Images were taken 7 days after the first transfer. DFPM-insensitive victr-1 was used as a control. B) Prolonged exposure to fresh DFPM by re-transferring seedlings daily for 4 days resulted in further inhibition of growth in lateral roots and leaves in wild type (Col-0). Wild type (Col-0) and victr-1 seedlings were transferred to 10 μM DFPM or DMSO control medium one time (A) or every 24 hours for 4 days (B). The black horizontal bars indicate the primary root lengths at the time of first transfer to DFPM. Primary and lateral roots of victr-1 grew normally in all cases similarly to non-treated controls. C) Lengths of Col-0 and victr-1 lateral roots in B were measured and shown as frequency distribution. n = 2, 12–19 plants per experiment. D) Lateral roots of Col-0 plants in (B) were swollen and bent similar to typical symptoms for primary roots treated with DFPM [CITATION]. Scale bar applies for both images. As previously described [CITATION] under the single DFPM treatment, DFPM-triggered growth arrest is observed in primary roots of Col-0 wild-type seedlings, while lateral roots elongated even longer than arrested primary roots (CITATION, arrowheads). However, when seedlings were re-transferred to a fresh DFPM plate every 24 hours for 4 days, secondary root growth was also severely inhibited as well as the primary root growth (CITATION). victr-1 mutant plants did not show growth arrest of either primary or lateral roots under all conditions of DFPM application (CITATION). The tips of compromised Col-0 lateral roots in CITATION became swollen and bent into a hook-shaped structure (CITATION), resembling primary roots exposed to DFPM [CITATION]. These observations suggest that DFPM effects are not limited to primary root growth arrest as assumed earlier [CITATION] but also inhibit lateral root growth. In an effort to gain insights into the observed DFPM modification process (CITATION), the components of an aqueous DFPM solution were monitored by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) after being exposed to light over a period of 0, 180, and 360 min. In general, DFPM ionized well in electrospray ionization (ESI) and exhibited a distinct relative absorption peak with the retention time of around 13.5 min (CITATION, blue arrowheads) where the wavelength of maximum absorption observed (λmax) was 318 nm. This distinct peak allowed for relative quantification of DFPM at defined time points. Consistent with earlier UV-Vis spectra (CITATION), after incubation in the light condition at room temperature for only 180 minutes a significant reduction in the characteristic peak of DFPM was detected (CITATION). After incubation for 360 min, the DFPM peak, both in the UV and extracted ion chromatogram (EIC), was completely absent (Figs CITATION and CITATION). Interestingly, as the characteristic peak of DFPM disappeared from the solution, a corresponding new peak appeared at a much shorter retention time of around 2.8 min (CITATION, grey arrowhead), indicating the formation of a new compound with increased polarity. This new peak whose λmax is 257 nm exhibited poor ionization in ESI, and also had a different UV chromatogram, compared to DFPM. However, when the DFPM working solution was stored in the dark, no noticeable decrease of the DFPM peak (CITATION, blue arrowhead) was observed after incubation for 360 min, and the aforementioned more polar peak was not detected, even after incubation times as long as 1620 minutes (CITATION). DFPM in aqueous solutions gave a distinct absorption peak in non-treated control sample (t = 0) (λmax = 318 nm, blue arrowheads). A) This peak declined after 180 and 360 min DFPM solution incubation in the light. At the same time a second peak was detected which accumulated over time in the light (grey arrowhead). B) If the same solution was incubated in the dark, the DFPM peak continued to decline but more slowly over time (blue arrowheads). No secondary metabolite was detected in the absence of light (B). The effect of molecular oxygen on the modification process of DFPM was evaluated by creating oxygen enriched and depleted environments in aqueous solutions of DFPM. In the samples enriched in O2 (gas), acceleration in the degradation of DFPM was observed as well as the production of the unknown polar metabolite (CITATION). DFPM was at the detection limit of the LC-MS after only 180 min and undetectable at 360 min. In dark-treated samples that were also enriched with O2 (gas), no strong decrease of the DFPM peak or production of the polar metabolite was observed after 360 min (CITATION). However, due to the low solubility of DFPM in aqueous buffers, DFPM precipitated from the solution over time, also explaining the loss in absorbance in the UV-Vis spectrum (CITATION). These results suggest that both light and O2 are necessary for the modification of DFPM. DFPM-7 represents a closely related DFPM derivative that completely lacks bioactivity [CITATION, CITATION]. The chlorination pattern on the phenyl ring of DFPM-7 is different from DFPM, where DFPM-7 has a 2,5-dichlorophenyl versus the 3,4-dichlorophenyl in DFPM (CITATION). A shifted position of chlorine compared to DFPM seems critical to the lack of ability of DFPM-7 to elicit root growth arrest [CITATION]. Therefore, DFPM-7 was included as a control to evaluate the stability of DFPM-7 under the same conditions. Although DFPM-7 decomposed in aqueous solution and lost its yellow color on a similar time scale as DFPM, there was no detectable accumulation of a derived product (CITATION Compare with the grey arrowhead in CITATION). As observed for DFPM also, dark-treated DFPM-7 was found to be stable as revealed by its persistent HPLC peak (CITATION). The absence of a derived product both in the DFPM solution that was incubated in the dark and in the DFPM-7 solutions prompted additional investigations to identify the unknown substance (grey arrowhead in CITATION), as it may be responsible for the observed bioactivity in the root growth assay. High-resolution atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (HR-APCIMS) analyses of the modified product of DFPM gave a [M+H]+ at m/z 340.0496, indicating a molecular formula (MF) of C16H15Cl2NO3 (Δ 1.8 ppm). Interestingly, it only varies from DFPM (MF C16H15Cl2NOS) by the addition of O2 and loss of sulfur. Furthermore, comparison of the UV data for DFPM and this modified product revealed significant modification in the conjugated double bond system of DFPM as there was a shift in absorption from 318 to 257 nm, respectively. Based on these findings and the increased polarity of the modified product compared to DFPM, we propose a potential structure and mechanism for this modified product (CITATION). According to our model, molecular oxygen reacts with the furan ring in DFPM in a light-induced Diels-Alder type reaction [CITATION], forming an endoperoxide. This peroxide may then degrade, similarly to that involved in ozonolysis of an olefin [CITATION], forming the compound presented in CITATION. All attempts to isolate and enrich this modified product to test its bioactivity by pursuing root bioassays on plant seedlings failed, likely as a result of the compound’s inherent instability.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana mutants victr-1 (Salk_123918) and eds1-2 (in Col-0 accession) were described in Kim et al. [CITATION]. All EDS1-YFP transgenic lines were generated in eds1-2 (Col-0 accession). EDS1-YFP, EDS1-YFP-NES and EDS1-YFP-nes transgenic lines are described in Garcia et al. [CITATION], and EDS1-YFP-NLS transgenic lines are described in Stuttmann et al. [CITATION]. DFPM ([5-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)furan-2-yl]-piperidine-1-ylmethanethione) was purchased from Chembridge (chemical ID 6015316) and Innovapharm (Ukraine, chemical ID STT-00334837). As described before [CITATION], seeds were sterilized and germinated on half MS medium (half-strength Murashige and Skoog Basal Medium with Gamborg′s vitamins (M0404 Sigma), 0.05% MES, pH 5.7, 1% sucrose) plates with 0.8% phyto agar. After 2 days of stratification, seedlings were vertically grown for 10 days in 16 h/8 h long day conditions. On day 10, plants were transferred to new plates containing 10 μM DFPM. Subsequently, the root tip position was marked and root growth arrest was monitored after 6 d. All root growth experiments were repeated at least three times in independent experiments and representative images are shown. For subcellular localization studies of EDS1-YFP isoforms within root cells, 5 day-old plant seedlings were exposed to 10 μM DFPM for 24 h and monitored using a Zeiss LSM 710 confocal microscope (Ex 514 nm/ Em 519–621 nm). Constant gain and pinhole values were used to observe pEDS1-EDS1-YFP, pEDS1-EDS1-YFP-NES and pEDS1-EDS1-YFP-NLS high expressor #A5. For pEDS1-EDS1-YFP-nes and the pEDS1-EDS1-YFP-NLS low expressor line #B2, an increased gain value was used to enhance the YFP signal. Plants were grown in 1/2 MS plates with 1% sucrose for 14 days and transferred to a 24 well plate containing 1/2 MS solution with 10 μM DFPM or DMSO for 24 hours. Total RNA was extracted using Spectrum™ Plant Total RNA Kit (Sigma-Aldrich), treated with TURBO™ DNase (Thermo-Fisher) and reverse-transcribed using First-Strand cDNA Synthesis Kit (GE Healthcare). Real-time RT-PCR was performed to quantify VICTR, PR5 or EDS1 transcript levels. Amplified samples were normalized against the housekeeping gene PDF2. To extract RNA from shoots and roots separately, plants were grown in vertical plates. After DFPM treatment, shoots and roots were isolated and used for RNA extraction separately as mentioned earlier. Primers used are: VICTR-qRT2-F 5’- AGAGACCGGTTCATCAGCAGAG-3’, VICTR-qRT2-R 5’-CCATATTGCCTTCTTCGGCTTGAG-3’, PR5-F 5’-ATCACCCACAGCACAGAGACAC-3’, PR5-R 5’-AGCAATGCCGCTTGTGATGAAC-3’, EDS1 qRT-F 5’-GCTCAATGACCTTGGAGTGAGC-3’, EDS1 qRT-R 5’-TCTTCCTCTAATGCAGCTTGAACG-3’, PDF2-F 5’-TAACGTGGCCAAAATGATGC-3’, PDF2-R 5’-GTTCTCCACAACCGCTTGGT-3’. Half-strength MS medium was aliquoted into a white 96 well plate (08-771-26 Corning Life Sciences). Subsequently, one sterilized seed per well was added and the plate sealed using parafilm. After 2 d of stratification seedlings were grown in a Percival growth cabinet (150 μmoles/m²/s) for 7 d in 16 h/8 h long day conditions. After 7 days, 130 μL of the same media as listed above (- agar), +/- DFPM was added to each well (15 μM DFPM final concentration). Half of the plate was wrapped with aluminum foil to protect the samples from light. Plates were returned to the Percival growth chamber for a 6 h incubation time. From a 250 μg/ml fluorescein diacetate (FDA) stock (Sigma, F7378, in DMSO) 5.5 μL/well were added to get a final concentration of ~5 μg/ml. After 5 min incubation at room temperature, cell viability was determined by fluorescence detection (Ex 485 nm /Em 510 nm) using a Berthold plate reader (Mithras LB 940). Seven day-old seedlings were incubated in half MS medium containing DFPM at the indicated concentrations for 24 hours. Seedlings were stained with 7 μg/ml FDA and 5 μg/ml propidium iodide (Sigma, P4170) for 10 seconds. After a brief rinse with water, root cells were monitored using a Zeiss LSM 710 confocal microscope (Ex 488 nm/ Em 493–555 nm). Constant gain and pinhole values were used to observe fluorescence. To quantify FDA fluorescence signals and calculate IC50 values, seedlings exposed to DFPM with increasing concentrations from 0.5 to 10 μM were stained with 7 μg/ml FDA and observed using a Nikon Eclipse TE2000-U Confocal microscope (Ex 488 nm/ Em 500–550 nm). Fluorescence intensity was measured using Image J program [CITATION] and IC50 was measured using Graphpad Prism 6 program. To obtain aqueous working solutions for all experiments, 7.5 μL of a 50 mM DFPM stock solution in DMSO was added to 5 mL of MilliQ water in a glass vial (75 μM final conc.). The solutions were thoroughly mixed and 100 μL was used for time zero control (T0) Liquid Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS) analyses. For light reactions, the vial was then placed, uncapped, in front of a UV lamp. For the dark reactions, the vials were immediately covered in aluminum foil and placed right next to the light reaction samples, uncapped. For the experiments with either O2 (gas) enrichment or depletion, upon addition of DFPM the vials were capped with a rubber septum and attached to a vacuum manifold. Using the manifold the air in the vial was replaced with either argon gas (O2 depletion) or O2 (gas) (O2 enrichment) and then placed in front of the UV light. To ensure constantly remaining O2 (gas) levels in the enriched samples, a balloon filled with O2 (gas) adapted with a needle was inserted through the rubber septum during the entire experiment. At every given time point, 100 μL sample aliquots were removed for LC-MS analyses. The LC-MS analyses were performed using a ThermoFinnigan Surveyor, equipped with a C18 Kinetic core-shell column. Solvent system used: holding 50% acetonitrile (ACN)/H2O + 0.1% formic acid (FA) for 3 min, then gradient to 100% ACN over 12 min, and concluding with a 5 min hold at 100% ACN. High resolution mass spectra were acquired for both DFPM and the modification product using an Agilent 6230 LC-APCI-TOFMS equipped with the same column and gradient as described above.
