!~ABS~!  
!~RES~! In order to investigate the potential role of cytokinins in root gravitropism, we used transgenic lines with depleted endogenous cytokinin concentrations (Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3) and single and multiple cytokinin signaling mutants (ahk, ahp, arr). The root gravitropic angle between the root meristem and elongation zone (see the Materials and Methods section; Supporting Information Fig. S1a) was measured 3 h after gravistimulation. The angle was larger in all Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines compared with the WT, suggesting slower root bending (Fig. 1a). A comparable effect was observed in single and double mutants of cytokinin receptors carrying the ahk3 allele (Figs 1b, S1b). An increased angle also was observed in multiple ahk2 ahk3 ahk4, ahp1 ahp2 ahp3 ahp4 ahp5 and arr1 arr10 arr12 mutants (Fig. 1b); however, this probably reflected the general root growth defects observed in these plants (Nishimura et al., CITATION; Hutchison et al., CITATION; Ishida et al., CITATION). We also tested exogenous cytokinin application in seedlings grown on MS media supplemented by benzyladenine. However, no difference between mock‐ and cytokinin‐treated plants was identifiable after 3 h of gravistimulation (Fig. S1c), suggesting the dominant role of endogenous cytokinins in the root gravitropic response.  [[FIGURE]] We also investigated a longer duration of gravistimulation, specifically 6 and 24 h. On the one hand, differences in the gravitropic response of cytokinin receptor single and double mutants after 6 h were similar to those seen after 3 h. On the other, the gravitropic response was comparable to WT in all ahk single and double mutants after 24 h of gravistimulation (Fig. S1d), suggesting the transient nature of the observed phenomenon.  For detailed characterization of the early events during root gravitropic bending, we developed a novel approach allowing in vivo real‐time imaging using a confocal microscope Nikon with horizontal‐oriented optical axis (M. Pernisova & J. Hejatko, unpublished). We measured several parameters of gravitropic root bending, that is, length of trajectory, height of trajectory peak, and upward and downward radius (Fig. 1c). In comparison to the control, all parameters were increased in both Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines and in the ahk3‐7 mutant (Fig. 1d), further supporting our previous observations.  Altogether, our findings suggest that cytokinins control the dynamics of the root gravitropic response in Arabidopsis but not the ability of the root to react to changes in the gravitropic vector per se. This effect is mediated through the cytokinin signaling pathway, primarily via the cytokinin receptor AHK3.  The velocity of root growth is determined by the rate of cell division in the root apical meristem, cell differentiation and, in particular, elongation of differentiated cells leaving the root apical meristem. Cytokinins have been shown to initiate cell differentiation, leading to shortening of the meristem, and thus reduction of the root length (Dello Ioio et al., CITATION). However, cytokinins do not seem to control the cell division rate in the root apical meristem (Beemster & Baskin, CITATION; Werner et al., CITATION; Dello Ioio et al., CITATION) but instead negatively regulate the number of dividing cells (Werner et al., CITATION; Dello Ioio et al., CITATION).  In order to decipher the cytokinin impact in delayed root gravitropic bending, we first compared root elongation without any gravistimulation in WT, Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines, and cytokinin receptor single and double mutants. Interestingly, we observed that root growth was faster in all tested lines in comparison to WT (Fig. 2a). Next, we investigated the potential effect of cytokinins on cell elongation, which is the dominant mechanism of root bending after gravitropic stimulation. We found that fully differentiated cells were significantly longer in Pro35S:AtCKX3 roots but not in ahk3‐7 in comparison to WT (Fig. 2b). We also explored the potential influence of endogenous cytokinins or cytokinin signaling on auxin‐mediated reduction of root elongation. However, root elongation of Pro35S:AtCKX3 and ahk3‐7 lines after exogenously applied auxin NAA displayed a WT‐like response (Fig. 2c).  [[FIGURE]] Taken together, our results suggest that delayed gravitropic bending is due to the cytokinin impact on gravitropic signal perception in the columella cells, or gravitropic signal transduction through the proximal meristem to the root elongation zone, rather than on the cell elongation.  Endogenous cytokinins have previously been shown to affect the auxin distribution in the root tip (Pernisová et al., CITATION). To investigate the potential role of cytokinin signaling in controlling the intercellular auxin distribution, we crossed the auxin response reporter DR5rev:GFP with single and double mutants in cytokinin receptors. Even without any gravistimulation, we observed an altered auxin response distribution in the columella cells of mutant lines (Fig. 3a–g; Table S1). Three effects on the DR5rev:GFP expression pattern were distinguishable in the ahk lines: absence of the signal in the quiescent center, signal asymmetry in columella cells and its expansion from columella into the lateral root cap. These differences were visible in the single ahk3‐7 mutant and were more pronounced in both double mutant combinations containing ahk3‐7 allele, ahk2‐5 ahk3‐7 and ahk3‐7 cre1‐2. Expression of AHK3‐GUS revealed localization of AHK3 in the quiescent center, stem cell niche, columella and stele in the root tip (Fig. 3h), consistent with the aberrations of DR5rev:GFP expression observed in the ahk3‐7 mutant backgrounds.  [[FIGURE]] Thus, it seems that cytokinin signaling controls the auxin response distribution in the quiescent center and columella cells of the root tip. The cytokinin receptor AHK3 appears to play a dominant role in this process, but two other cytokinin receptors, AHK2 and AHK4, have additive effects.  Asymmetric auxin distribution after gravistimulation is hypothesized to be important for unequal cell elongation at the upper and lower sides of the root, thus facilitating root bending (Boonsirichai et al., CITATION; Morita, CITATION). We visualized auxin signaling distribution early after root gravistimulation using the DII‐Venus reporter (Liao et al., CITATION). The reporter allows sensitive visualization of auxin distribution via fast auxin‐induced downregulation of the Venus signal (Band et al., CITATION; Brunoud et al., CITATION). In the WT, we observed auxin accumulation at the lower side of the root at time T30 (30 min after gravistimulation), although at that time there was no change in the auxin concentration identifiable at the upper side of the root (Fig. 3i). Interestingly, we spotted a slight increase in the auxin concentration at T60 (60 min after gravistimulation) at both the upper and lower sides of the root. Upregulation of endogenous cytokinins via application of INCYDE, an inhibitor of cytokinin oxidase activity (Zatloukal et al., CITATION; Antoniadi et al., CITATION), delimited the increase of the auxin accumulation at the lower side of the root and completely inhibited the auxin increase at the upper side of the root gravistimulated for 60 min (Fig. 3i). This is in a good agreement with slower root bending on INCYDE after gravistimulation (see later Fig. S8).  In conclusion, these data suggest an impaired ability to redistribute auxin and delayed root bending in the gravistimulated root in response to the increase of endogenous cytokinin content.  The auxin response maximum in the root meristem is to a large extent mediated by the activity of PIN auxin transporters (Friml et al., CITATION; Petrasek et al., CITATION). PIN3 and PIN7 auxin transporters are localized in columella cells, and thus presumably involved in the auxin distribution in the root tip (Friml et al., CITATION; Blilou et al., CITATION). Both of these transporters have been suggested to have an important role in root gravitropism (Friml et al., CITATION; Harrison & Masson, CITATION; Kleine‐Vehn et al., CITATION). Hence, we investigated the role of cytokinins in regulating the expression and localization of PIN3‐GFP and PIN7‐GFP in columella cells of the Pro35S:AtCKX2, Pro35S:AtCKX3 and ahk3‐7 lines.  The PIN3‐GFP signal at plasma membranes of columella cells was lower in both the Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines and in one of the tested ahk3 mutant lines (Figs 4a–f, S2a, S3; Table S2). Nonetheless, the signal intensity of intracellular PIN3‐GFP was comparable to the control in all tested lines (Fig. S2b) and the PIN3 expression niche was not changed either. In contrast to PIN3, the PIN7‐GFP signal intensities at plasma membranes were comparable in the WT, Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines (Figs 4g–l, S4a, S5; Table S3). However, the amount of intracellular PIN7 protein was increased in the C2 layer (Fig. S4b) and the PIN7 expression domain had expanded laterally into the root cap of the Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines (Fig. 4m,n). The PIN7‐GFP signal in the ahk3‐7 mutant was variable and no statistically significant differences were detected (Figs 4, S4).  [[FIGURE]] In line with that, increasing the endogenous cytokinin content via application of INCYDE led to upregulation of the PIN3 signal while narrowing the PIN7 expression niche; that is, the opposite effect in comparison to transgenic lines with depleted endogenous cytokinins (Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3) (Fig. S6a). Furthermore, both PIN3‐GFP and PIN7‐GFP signals in columella and the gravitropic bending (Fig. S6b) reverted to the WT phenotype in Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines after INCYDE treatment.  To summarize, our results suggest that endogenous cytokinin levels potentially may influence the intercellular auxin distribution via differential regulation of PIN3 and PIN7 abundance and/or localization. In addition, endogenous cytokinin concentrations delimit the PIN7 expression niche. AHK3 alone seems to have no major role in these processes.  PIN3 and PIN7 proteins are localized uniformly in columella cells. After gravistimulation, they accumulate on the new bottom side of the cells via transcytosis. This relocalization is fast and independent of de novo protein synthesis (Kleine‐Vehn et al., CITATION). To assay changes in PIN protein localization, we applied in vivo real‐time imaging using two different confocal microscopes: horizontal‐oriented (Nikon) and vertical‐oriented (Zeiss) optical axes. PIN3‐GFP and PIN7‐GFP signals were measured at plasma membranes in columella cells of the WT, Pro35S:AtCKX3 line and ahk3‐7 mutant at T0, T5, T10, T20 and T30 (Figs 5a,b, S7). To eliminate the effect of bleaching apparent during the time lapse imaging, we evaluated the data as a signal intensity ratio between lateral and basal membranes (see the Materials and Methods section).  [[FIGURE]] The PIN3‐GFP signal intensity ratio was comparable in the WT and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines and remained nearly unchanged up to T30 in innermost columella cells (Fig. 5c). In outer columella cells at bottom side of the root tip, the PIN3‐GFP signal intensity ratio was slightly increased after T30 (Fig. S7b; Table S4). However, the PIN7‐GFP signal intensity ratio increased rapidly by T5 in both the WT and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines (Figs 5d, S5, S7d; Tables S3, S5), suggesting fast accumulation of PIN7 at the lateral membranes. After the rapid change observed during the first 5 min, the signal intensity ratio rose only slightly over the subsequent time points. In the Pro35S:AtCKX3 line, the PIN7‐GFP signal intensity was slightly stronger at the lateral membranes (Fig. S5; Table S3), resulting in elevation of the signal intensity ratio compared with the control (Fig. 5d). However, the relocalization dynamics of PIN7‐GFP in Pro35S:AtCKX3 were similar to the control after gravistimulation (Figs 5d, S7c; Table S5).  In the ahk3‐7 line, all of the tested parameters for PIN3‐GFP and PIN7‐GFP were similar to control (Figs 5c,d, S3, S5; Tables S2, S3), suggesting that AHK3 signaling plays only a minor function in PIN3 and PIN7 relocalization in gravistimulated columella cells.  Interestingly, the pin3 pin7 mutant showed WT‐like root gravitropic bending and retained sensitivity to INCYDE comparable to WT as well (Fig. S8). PIN4, another member of the PIN family, was shown to expand laterally in the columella in the pin3 pin7 background, potentially masking the absence of PIN3 and PIN7 (Blilou et al., CITATION). To inspect possible PIN4‐mediated rescue of the pin3 pin7 gravitropic response, we tested the pin3 pin4 pin7 triple mutant. Our results showed a partial defect of pin3 pin4 pin7 in root bending after gravistimulation, but retained cytokinin sensitivity in gravitropic bending (Fig. S8).  Altogether, we conclude that the ability of PIN3 and PIN7 to relocalize to lateral membranes in response to a gravitropic stimulus remains unaffected by decreased endogenous cytokinin concentrations and/or attenuated AHK3‐mediated cytokinin signaling. Notably, PIN7 relocalization after gravistimulation is more dynamic than that of PIN3, suggesting the importance of PIN7 at very early stages after gravistimulation, a notion that has not been elaborated on previously. Our data also predict the existence of another cytokinin target in the control of the early root gravitropic response other than PIN‐mediated auxin transport in the columella.  The expansion of the auxin response from the columella to lateral root cap in cytokinin‐deficient plants (Pernisová et al., CITATION), together with the absence of PIN3 and PIN7 in adjacent cells and the aforementioned cytokinin sensitivity of pin3 pin4 pin7, implies involvement of another transporter in the cytokinin‐mediated control over auxin distribution in the root tip. An auxin influx carrier AUX1 is localized in the columella cells, lateral root cap, epidermis and stele (Swarup et al., CITATION), and was shown to be regulated by exogenous cytokinin application (Zhang et al., CITATION). That, together with strong agravitropic phenotype of aux1 (Fig. S8) (Marchant et al., CITATION), made AUX1 a good candidate in our search. We compared AUX1‐YFP signal in WT, Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 lines, and found decrease of the AUX1‐YFP in both cytokinin‐deficient lines (Fig. 6).  [[FIGURE]] Altogether, our results indicate that endogenous cytokinins regulate AUX1 expression, thus controlling the velocity of auxin transport in the root tip. 
!~MM~! Unless otherwise mentioned, all plant material used was Arabidopsis thaliana, ecotype Col. The transgenic or mutant lines have been described previously: Pro35S:AtCKX2 (Pernisová et al., CITATION), Pro35S:AtCKX3 (Pernisová et al., CITATION), Pro35S:AtCKX2/DR5rev:GFP (Pernisová et al., CITATION), Pro35S:AtCKX3/DR5rev:GFP (Pernisová et al., CITATION), DR5rev:GFP (Friml et al., CITATION), DII‐Venus (Liao et al., CITATION), ProPIN3:PIN3‐GFP (PIN3‐GFP; Zadnikova et al., CITATION), ProPIN7:PIN7‐GFP (PIN7‐GFP; Kleine‐Vehn et al., CITATION), ProAUX1:AUX1‐YFP (AUX1‐YFP; Swarup et al., CITATION), ProAHK3:AHK3‐uidA (AHK3‐GUS; Dello Ioio et al., CITATION), ahk2‐1 (Nishimura et al., CITATION), ahk2‐5 (Riefler et al., CITATION), ahk2‐7 (Rashotte et al., CITATION), ahk3‐1 (Nishimura et al., CITATION), ahk3‐3 (Higuchi et al., CITATION), ahk3‐7 (Riefler et al., CITATION), ahk4‐1 (Ws ecotype) (Ueguchi et al., CITATION), cre1‐2 (Inoue et al., CITATION), cre1‐12 (Higuchi et al., CITATION), ahk2‐5 ahk3‐7 (Riefler et al., CITATION), ahk2‐5 cre1‐2 (Riefler et al., CITATION), ahk3‐7 cre1‐2 (Riefler et al., CITATION), ahk2‐5 ahk3‐7 cre1‐2 (Riefler et al., CITATION), ahp1 ahp2 ahp3 ahp4 ahp5 (Deng et al., CITATION), arr1‐3 arr10‐5 arr12‐1 (Mason et al., CITATION), pin3‐5 pin7‐1 (Blilou et al., CITATION), pin3‐5 pin4‐3 pin7‐1 (Blilou et al., CITATION) and aux1‐7 (NASC N3074).  Pro35S:AtCKX2 and Pro35S:AtCKX3 were crossed with PIN3‐GFP, PIN7‐GFP, AUX1‐YFP and double homozygous lines were analyzed. Mutant lines ahk2‐5, ahk3‐7, cre1‐2, ahk2‐5 ahk3‐7, ahk2‐5 cre1‐2 and ahk3‐7 cre1‐2 were crossed with DR5rev:GFP, and ahk3‐7 was crossed with PIN3‐GFP and PIN7‐GFP; homozygous lines were used in the experiments.  The growth media used comprised 0.5× Murashige & Skoog (MS) medium (Duchefa, Haarlem, the Netherlands) with 1% sucrose and 1% Plant agar (Duchefa), pH 5.7. 100 nM 1‐naphthalene acetic acid (NAA; Sigma), 100 nM benzyladenine (BA; Sigma) and 100 nM INCYDE (Zatloukal et al., CITATION) were used for exogenous hormonal treatment. Plants were cultivated in growth chambers (CLF Plant Climatics GmbH, Wertingen, Germany) under long day conditions (16 h : 8 h, light : dark) at 21°C in Petri dishes on 0.5× MS medium or in soil, with a light intensity of 150 μM m−2 s−1 and 60% relative humidity.  Five‐day‐old plants on Petri dishes were gravistimulated by rotation of 90°. The root gravitropic angle between the longitudinal axis of the root apical meristem and elongation zone of the primary root was measured. The gravitropic angle was c. 180° immediately after gravistimulation and decreased with time until it reached that for downward growth (90°). Thus, the gravitropic angle reflected the velocity of root‐tip bending after gravistimulation.  AHK3‐GUS seedlings were stained in 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, containing 0.1% X‐glc, 0.5 mM K3[Fe(CN)6], 0.5 mM K4[Fe(CN)6] and 0.05% Triton X‐100 for 30 min at 37°C and were destained overnight in 80% (v/v) ethanol. Tissue clearing was conducted as previously described (Malamy & Benfey, CITATION).  Differential interference contrast (DIC) microscopy was performed on an Olympus BX61 microscope (Olympus Optical Co. Ltd, Tokyo, Japan) equipped with a DP50 camera. Confocal microscopy was carried out on several different microscopes: an inverted Zeiss Observer.Z1 equipped with a LSM780 confocal unit and ×40 water immersion objective; a vertical Zeiss microscope with confocal unit LSM700 and ×20 air objective; an upright Leica DM 2500 with TCS SPE confocal unit and ×40 air objective; and a Nikon AZ100 with horizontally‐oriented optical axis, Nikon D‐Eclipse C1 confocal unit and ×5 air objective with long working distance (M. Pernisova & J. Hejatko, unpublished). An appropriate set of filters was used for GFP imaging (excitation 488 nm, emission 507 nm).  Root or cell growth parameters were analyzed with the ImageJ software (Wayne Rasband, NIH; http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij). Signal intensity measurements were carried out with software accompanying the confocal microscopes: ZEN (Carl Zeiss MicroImaging GmbH, Oberkochen, Germany), LAS AF lite (Leica Microsystems CMS GmbH, Wetzlar, Germany) and EZ‐C1 (Nikon Corp., Tokyo, Japan).  PIN3‐GFP, PIN7‐GFP, AUX1‐YFP and DII‐Venus signal intensities were measured as average grayscale values, ranging from 0 to 4096.  The PIN3‐GFP and PIN7‐GFP signal intensity ratios were calculated as a percentage of the signal intensity at the lateral membrane (new bottom membrane after gravistimulation) to the sum of signal intensities at the basal (old bottom membrane before gravistimulation) and lateral membranes. According to this definition, the signal intensity ratio showed changes in the protein redistribution between basal and lateral membranes, thus reflecting the dynamics of protein relocalization during the root gravitropic response.  The change in the signal intensity ratio was evaluated from 0 to 5 min (T0–T5) after gravistimulation by calculating the signal intensity ratio at T0 subtracted from the signal intensity ratio at T5 divided by five. The resulting value was always positive, suggesting that the signal intensity ratio increased over the first 5 min after gravistimulation. Likewise, the change in the signal intensity ratio was calculated from T5 to 30 min after gravistimulation (T30) as the average of changes over the particular time period weighted by the length of the time period. The aforementioned variables were referred to as the increase of the signal intensity ratio from T0 to T5 and from T5 to T30, respectively.  All of the variables, including the signal intensity at membranes and signal intensity ratio at T0, T5, T10, T20 and T30, as well as the increase in the T0–T5 and T5–T30 signal intensity ratios, were tested for a normal distribution within the wild‐type (WT), Pro35S:AtCKX3 line and ahk3‐7 mutant by means of the Shapiro–Wilk test. Because almost all tests showed a normal distribution, the two sample t‐test was used to analyze differences between the WT and Pro35S:AtCKX3 line and between the WT and ahk3‐7 mutant. Owing to multiple usage of the t‐test, the hypotheses were tested at an adjusted significance level of α = 0.025 (0.05/2; Bonferroni's correction). The one‐sample t‐test was used to analyze the increase in the signal intensity ratio from T0 to T5 and from T5 to T30, respectively, comparing the values against a reference value 0. In cases with a small number of samples, the nonparametric Mann–Whitney U‐test and one sample Wilcoxon test were used. Data analyses were performed with IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows v.22.0., IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA and Statistica v.12 software (StatSoft, CITATION). 
