!~ABS~! Boron (B) is essential for plants but toxic in excess. The borate efflux transporter BOR1 is expressed in various root cells and localized to the inner/stele-side domain of the plasma membrane (PM) under low-B conditions. BOR1 is rapidly degraded through endocytosis upon sufficient B supply. The polar localization and degradation of BOR1 are considered important for efficient B translocation and avoidance of B toxicity, respectively. In this study, we first analyzed the subcellular localization of BOR1 in roots, cotyledons and hypocotyls, and revealed a polar localization in various cell types. We also found that the inner polarity of BOR1 is established after completion of cytokinesis in the root meristem. Moreover, variable-angle epifluorescence microscopy visualized BOR1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) as particles in the PM with significant lateral movements but in restricted areas. Importantly, a portion of BOR1–GFP particles co-localized with DYNAMIN-RELATED PROTEIN 1A (DRP1A), which is involved in scission of the clathrin-coated vesicles, and they disappeared together from the PM. To examine the contribution of DRP1A-mediated endocytosis to BOR1 localization and degradation, we developed an inducible expression system of the DRP1A K47A variant. The DRP1A variant prolonged the residence time of clathrin on the PM and inhibited endocytosis of membrane lipids. The dominant-negative DRP1A blocked endocytosis of BOR1 and disturbed its polar localization and B-induced degradation. Our results provided insight into the endocytic mechanisms that modulate the subcellular localization and abundance of a mineral transporter for nutrient homeostasis in plant cells.
!~RES~! BOR1 plays important roles in B translocation from root to shoot (CITATION, CITATION) and is localized to the inner/stele-side PM domain in various root cell types (CITATION). To gain further insights into the expression and subcellular localization of BOR1, we analyzed transgenic Arabidopsis expressing BOR1–green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the BOR1 promoter. We first observed BOR1–GFP in whole seedlings grown for 4 d (Fig. 1A). BOR1–GFP fluorescent signals were observed in the primary root tip and mature portion of the root, as reported previously (Fig. 1A; CITATION, CITATION). Here, we identified additional expression in the basal region of the hypocotyl and tip of the cotyledon (Fig. 1A). In the cotyledon, confocal microscopy of a cross-section revealed that BOR1–GFP is expressed predominantly in epidermal cells on the top side (Fig. 1B, C). In these cells, BOR1–GFP was localized to the PM (Fig. 1D). Strikingly, both an XY section of a physical cross-section (Fig. 1B, C) and a XZ section reconstructed from Z-stack images of intact cotyledons (Fig. 1E) revealed polar localization of BOR1–GFP toward the inner side of the cotyledon. These results imply physiological roles for BOR1 in B uptake from the leaf surface and/or B redistribution from the cotyledon. In the basal region of hypocotyls, BOR1–GFP was expressed and localized with inner/stele-side polarity in the endodermal cells (Fig. 1F, G). In the transition and differentiation zones of roots, BOR1–GFP was highly expressed and localized with stele-side polarity in the epidermal and endodermal cells (Fig. 1H–K). The polar localization of BOR1–GFP can be judged in comparison with the PM by staining with FM4-64, a lipophilic dye (CITATION). In the root meristem zone, BOR1–GFP was expressed in various cell types: epidermal, endodermal, columella, parts of the lateral cap, quiescent center (QC), vascular initial and protovascular cells (Fig. 1L, M). Interestingly, in the QC, vascular initial and protovascular cells, BOR1–GFP showed apical polar localization (Fig. 1L, M). To corroborate the localization of BOR1–GFP in these cells that are located deep in the roots, we performed multiphoton microscopy (Fig. 1N). BOR1–GFP showed apical polar localization within approximately eight protovascular cells from the QC, whereas the polarity in the upper cells was not determined because of weak signals (Fig. 1N). Our observations of BOR1–GFP indicate that BOR1 is expressed in various tissues, including the cotyledon and hypocotyl, and generally shows polar localization toward the center of the tissues.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We showed that BOR1 is localized to the PM with polarity in various cell types (Fig. 1). However, we noticed that BOR1–GFP is localized in a non-polar manner in the cell plate in dividing cells (Fig. 1M, inset). To characterize the process of polarity acquisition of BOR1, we performed time-lapse imaging of dividing cells expressing BOR1–GFP (Fig. 2). BOR1–GFP initially localized to the cell plate without polarity and then gradually obtained stele-side polarity after completion of cell division (Fig. 2A). To assess the polarity of BOR1, fluorescence intensities of BOR1–GFP in the PM were plotted (Fig. 2B, C). Compared with the polar localization of BOR1–GFP in the apical and basal PM (Fig. 2B, PM1 and PM3), the BOR1–GFP distribution was not significantly polar in the newly generated PM (Fig. 2B, PM2). However, at 50 min after the completion of cell division, polar localization of BOR1–GFP was clearly established (Fig. 2C, PM2) and was indistinguishable from those of the apical and basal PM (Fig. 2C, PM1 and PM3). We also calculated the polarity index of the BOR1–GFP signal in comparison with FM4-64 staining in the newly formed PM after the completion of cell division (Fig. 2D, E). The polarity index of BOR1–GFP was approximately 1.5 for the first 30 min and then increased to about 2 by 80 min after cell division (Fig. 2E). These results imply that endocytic removal from the newly generated PM is involved in the polarity acquisition of BOR1.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To address the role of endocytosis in the polar localization of BOR1, we focused on the localization and function of DRP1A, a major isoform of the DRP1 family expressed in seedlings (CITATION). To investigate the association of BOR1 and DRP1A in vivo, we performed confocal microscopy of transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings expressing BOR1–GFP under the control of the BOR1 promoter and those expressing DRP1A–TagRFP under the control of the DRP1A promoter (Fig. 3). DRP1A–TagRFP showed accumulation in the outer/soil-side PM domain in epidermal cells of the root transition zone (Fig. 3A, C) and in the cell plates in mitotic cells of the meristematic zone (Fig. 3B, D), as described previously (CITATION). Importantly, the localization of BOR1–GFP and DRP1A–TagRFP overlapped at the PM (Fig. 3C) and cell plate (Fig. 3D).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To verify the association of BOR1 and DRP1A, we performed VAEM analysis at the soil-side PM domain of the epidermal cells in elongation and differentiation zones. BOR1–GFP was observed as particles that exhibited considerable movement in restricted regions in the PM (Fig. 4A, C; Supplementary Movies S1–S4). In contrast, DRP1A–TagRFP was observed as relatively immobile transient puncta (Fig. 4A, C; Supplementary Movie S4), as described previously (CITATION, CITATION). Most BOR1–GFP particles were independent of DRP1A–TagRFP (Fig. 4A, B). Only 3.5% of BOR1–GFP particles were co-localized with DRP1A–TagRFP, and approximately 16% of DRP1A–TagRFP puncta were co-localized with BOR1–GFP (Supplementary Fig. S1). The rate of co-localization was similar to that by random co-localization (∼6.3% and ∼19%, respectively; Supplementary Fig. S1). Nevertheless, time-lapse VAEM analysis identified cases in which DRP1A–TagRFP appeared and co-localized with the BOR1–GFP particles for about 10–20 s and then disappeared (Fig. 4D, E; Supplementary Fig. S2A, B). The BOR1–GFP particle disappeared about 10 s after the dissociation of DRP1A–TagRFP. These observations suggest the following processes of endocytosis: (i) BOR1 is packed into the endocytic pit; (ii) DRP1 associates with the endocytic pit; (iii) DRP1 cuts off the vesicle and dissociates from the vesicle; and (iv) the BOR1-containing vesicles remain near the cell surface for about 10 s and then move away (Supplementary Fig. S1C).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] In mammalian cells, dominant-negative inhibition of dynamin is established as an effective method of inhibiting CME. Dynamin mutants carrying K44A, K44E or S45N are unable to bind to GTP and cut off CCV from the PM (CITATION). The expression of dynamin mutants inhibits CME in terms of the internalization of transferrin and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in a dominant-negative manner (CITATION, CITATION). The human dynamin 2 and plant DRP1s share similar GTPase domains at the N-terminal regions (59% identity), and K44 of human dynamin 2 corresponds to K47 of AtDRP1A (CITATION; Supplementary Fig. S3). Based on this information, we established an estradiol-inducible expression system of the wild type and the K47A-mutant DRP1A fused C-terminally to mRFP (Fig. 5A). Immunoblot analysis using an antibody against DRP1A/E (CITATION) showed that the expression levels of the wild-type and the K47A-mutant DRP1A–mRFP were 5.5- and 0.6-fold, respectively, compared with those of endogenous DRP1A/E in the transgenic plants treated for 1 d with 10 µm β-estradiol (Supplementary Fig. S4). In this condition, the wild-type and K47A DRP1A–mRFP were detected with variable intensities in epidermal cells in the root tips (Fig. 5B). A patchy pattern of estradiol-inducible expression in the root epidermis was observed, as reported previously (CITATION). In cells strongly accumulating DRP1AK47A–mRFP, internalization of FM1-43, an endocytic tracer (CITATION, CITATION), was clearly inhibited (Fig. 5C). It should be noted that DRP1AK47A–mRFP frequently labeled aggregates with variable sizes (0.3–1.8 µm in diameter) in the cytoplasm (Fig. 5C). The aggregates containing DRP1AK47A–mRFP were not labeled with clathrin light chain (CLC)–GFP, a TGN marker in the cytoplasm (CITATION; Supplementary Fig. S5), suggesting that the aggregates are not derived from the TGN/EE. As determined by confocal microscopy, the morphology of TGN/EE labeled with CLC–GFP was unaffected, irrespective of the level of DRP1AK47A–mRFP expression (Supplementary Fig. S5).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To characterize the behavior of the dominant-negative DRP1A variant at the PM, we performed time-lapse VAEM analyses. At the cell surface, DRP1AK47A–mRFP exhibited a longer residential time than wild-type DRP1A–mRFP (Fig. 6A–D). To determine whether DRP1AK47A–mRFP inhibits CME, we then analyzed the behavior of CCPs labeled by CLC–GFP at the cell surface (Fig. 6E, F). DRP1AK47A–mRFP frequently co-localized with CLC–GFP (Fig. 6F, yellow circles), and CLC–GFP showed significantly longer residential time when DRP1AK47A–mRFP was highly expressed (Fig. 6G, H). These results suggest that DRP1AK47A–mRFP associates with the CCPs and inhibits vesicular scission.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To assess the physiological effect of DRP1AK47A–mRFP expression, we investigated the growth and cellular morphology of seedlings under estradiol-induced and control conditions (Supplementary Fig. S6–S8). The DRP1AK47A–mRFP-expressing plants, as well as drp1Arsw9 mutant plants, had short hypocotyls under dark conditions and reduced root and shoot growth under light conditions (Supplementary Fig. S6A, B; CITATION, CITATION). Furthermore, we found that DRP1AK47A–mRFP expression disturbed cell elongation and proper cell division in the primary root (Supplementary Fig. S7) and affected the morphology of cotyledon epidermal cells, as in the case of drp1Arsw9 mutant cells (Supplementary Fig. S8). Importantly, several DRP1AK47A–mRFP-expressing plants grew more poorly than drp1Arsw9 (Supplementary Fig. S6B). This result implies that DRP1AK47A–mRFP inhibits the function not only of DRP1A but also of other DRP1 members. Combined, these findings suggested that the inducible expression of DRP1AK47A–mRFP is useful for the functional inhibition of DRP1-dependent CME. To address the contribution of DRP1s to the constitutive endocytosis of BOR1, we analyzed the internalization level of BOR1–GFP in cells expressing DRP1A–mRFP or DRP1AK47A–mRFP under BFA treatment. BOR1–GFP accumulated in the BFA compartments in cells expressing wild-type DRP1A–mRFP (Fig. 7A); however, BOR1–GFP was not or was less accumulated in the BFA compartments in cells expressing DRP1AK47A–mRFP (Fig. 7B). The internalization level of BOR1–GFP (cytoplasmic fluorescence signal divided by total cell signal; Supplementary Fig. S9) was negatively correlated with the expression level of DRP1AK47A–mRFP (R2 = 0.48; Fig. 7B, D), but it was not correlated with that of wild-type DRP1A–mRFP (R2 = 0.00064; Fig. 7A, C). These results suggest that DRP1-mediated vesicular scission is required for the constitutive endocytosis of BOR1.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To test the hypothesis that DRP1 mediates the relocation of BOR1 from the soil-side PM domains, we investigated the polar localization of BOR1–GFP in various cell types expressing DRP1K47A–mRFP (Fig. 8). In plants expressing DRP1AK47A–mRFP at high levels, BOR–GFP showed weak polarity in epidermal cells of the elongation and meristem zones and root cap cells (Fig. 8B). Furthermore, several cells showed ectopic localization of BOR1–GFP as puncta at the soil-side PM domain (Fig. 8B; Supplementary Fig. S10A). In plants treated with dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) or expressing wild-type DRP1A–mRFP induced by 10 µM β-estradiol, BOR1–GFP remained polar in the epidermal cells (Fig. 8A; Supplementary Fig. S10B, S11). We also analyzed the effect of single loss of function of DRP1A using the drp1Arsw9 mutant (CITATION). In the epidermal cells of drp1Arsw9, polar localization of BOR1–GFP was significantly disturbed, although BOR1–GFP was not localized to the puncta (Fig. 8C; Supplementary Fig. S10B). Unlike the consequence of DRP1AK47A–mRFP expression, BOR1–GFP localization remained polar in the columella in drp1Arsw9 (Fig. 8C). This suggests that other DRP1 members, such as DRP1C, which is highly expressed in columella (CITATION), are redundantly involved in the endocytosis of BOR1 in those cells. The polarity indexes of BOR1–GFP in epidermal cells of DRP1AK47A–mRFP plants treated with DMSO and estradiol were 1.86 and 0.99, respectively (Fig. 8C). Similarly, those in the wild type and drp1Arsw9 mutant plants were 1.96 and 1.10, respectively. In addition to the root tip, polar localization of BOR1–GFP was disturbed in the cotyledon epidermis of drp1Arsw9 plants (Fig. 8D). These results indicate that DRP1-dependent endocytosis is required for the inner/stele-side polarity of BOR1 in various cell types.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We then analyzed the contribution of DRP1-mediated endocytosis to the B-induced degradation of BOR1. We reported previously that BOR1–GFP was transported to endosomes, which appeared as punctate structures in the cell after approximately 15 min of high-B supply (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). The GFP core derived from GFP-fused membrane protein is relatively stable in the vacuole under dark conditions (CITATION). In the case of BOR1–GFP, the GFP signal was observable in the vacuole upon high-B supply for several hours under dark conditions, indicating that BOR1–GFP was transported to and degraded in the vacuole (CITATION). After induction of DRP1AK47A–mRFP with 10 µM β-estradiol for 1 d, the transgenic plants were transferred from a medium with 0.5 µM to one with 0.5 (low) or 100 µM (high) B and incubated for 120 min (Fig. 9A, B). Strikingly, the BOR1–GFP-derived signal was preferentially localized to the PM in cells with a strong expression of DRP1AK47A–mRFP, whereas it appeared in punctate endosomes (Fig. 9B, arrow) and vacuoles (Fig. 9B, arrowhead) in cells with a weak expression. We also analyzed B-induced endocytosis of BOR1 in drp1Arsw9 after 60 min of low- or high-B supply (Fig. 9C, D). The BOR1–GFP-derived signal was mainly detected in endosomes, while little was detected in the PM, in wild-type plants upon high-B supply (Fig. 9D). However, in the drp1Arsw9 mutant, the signal was detected mainly in the PM and little was detected in the endosomes. These results suggest that B-induced endocytosis of BOR1 was almost completely inhibited in the cells with strong DRP1AK47A–mRFP expression and partially inhibited by single loss of function of DRP1A. It is possible that other DRP1 members are redundantly involved in the B-induced endocytosis of BOR1. Taken together, our findings indicate that DRP1-mediated endocytosis is required not only for constitutive endocytosis under low-B conditions but also for B-induced degradation of BOR1.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Plasmid vectors harboring ProBOR1:BOR1-GFP, ProDRP1A:DRP1A-TagRFP and ProCLC:CLC-GFP were described previously (CITATION, CITATION, CITATION). The K47A mutation in DRP1A was introduced in a Gateway entry clone harboring the DRP1A CDS (CITATION) by PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis using the following two primers: 5′-GGTCAGAGCTCAGGGgcGTCTTCAGTCCTGGA-3′ and 5′-TCCAGGACTGAAGACgcCCCTGAGCTCTGAC-3′ (lower case letters indicate mutation sites). For construction of a plasmid vector harboring Est>>DRP1AWT/K47A-mRFP, the wild-type and site-directed mutagenized DRP1A CDS were subcloned into pMDC7-mRFP via a Gateway LR recombinant reaction (Invitrogen™, Thermo Fisher Scientific). pMDC7-mRFP for the inducible expression of the gene encoding the C-terminal mRFP fusions was generated through SpeI digestion and ligation of pMDC7 (CITATION), and the mRFP open reading frame (ORF) fragment was amplified using primers containing SpeI restriction sites. The Col-0 ecotype of A. thaliana (L.) Heynh. was from our laboratory stock. drp1Arsw9 (rsw9) was described previously (CITATION) and provided by the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC, The Ohio State University). A transgenic line carrying ProBOR1:BOR1-GFP was described previously (CITATION). Plasmid vectors were introduced into Arabidopsis plants by the floral dip method (CITATION) using Agrobacterium strain GV3101:pMP90. The Est>>DRP1AWT/K47A-mRFP and ProDRP1A:DRP1A-TagRFP constructs were introduced into Col-0 plants. A transgenic line carrying both ProBOR1:BOR1-GFP and ProDRP1A:DRP1A-TagRFP was generated by genetic crossing. Transgenic lines carrying both ProBOR1:BOR1-GFP and Est>>DRP1AWT/K47A-mRFP were generated by co-introduction of pAT83 (CITATION) and Est>>DRP1AWT/K47A-mRFP plasmid vectors by the floral dip method. Plants were grown for 4–5 d in growth chambers (NK System) with the following environmental parameters: 16 h/8 h light/dark cycle and 22°C under fluorescent lamps. Low-B medium (CITATION) was solidified with 1.5% (w/v) gellan gum (Wako Pure Chemical) containing 1% (w/v) sucrose and 0.5 µM boric acid. All media were prepared with ultra-pure water purified using a Milli-Q Advantage system (Merck Millipore). For induction of wild-type or dominant-negative variants of DRP1A–mRFP, 4-day-old seedlings grown on low-B medium were transferred to medium containing 10 µM β-estradiol (Sigma-Aldrich), 0.8% (w/v) gellan gum, 1% (w/v) sucrose and 0.5 µM boric acid for 16–24 h. For observation of etiolating plants, seedlings were grown on medium containing 10 µM β-estradiol, 1% (w/v) gellan gum, 1% (w/v) sucrose and 30 µM boric acid for 5 d under dark conditions. For observation of plant growth under the DRP1AK47A–mRFP-inductive condition, plants were grown on low-B medium containing 10 µM β-estradiol, 1.5% (w/v) gellan gum, 1% (w/v) sucrose and 0.5 µM boric acid for 5 d. For the control experiments, DMSO was supplied at 0.025% (v/v). Plant specimens were mounted in 50 µl of liquid medium containing 0.5 or 100 µM boric acid (CITATION). For FM4-64 staining, plants were incubated in liquid medium containing 0.5 µM boric acid and 2 µM FM4-64 for 10 min before observation. For cross-section, a cotyledon of a 4-day-old plant was embedded in 2% (w/v) gellan gum and cut using razor blades. The section was mounted on a 0.7 mm thickness cover glass. Confocal image acquisition was performed using a Leica TCS SP8 system equipped with a DMI6000B inverted microscope and two HyD hybrid detectors using ×10 dry (NA = 0.40), × 20 water immersion (NA = 0.75), × 40 water immersion (NA = 1.10) and × 63 glycerol immersion (NA = 1.30) objective lenses (Leica Microsystems). Laser excitations/spectral detection bandwidths were 405/420–500 nm for 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), 488/500–530 nm for GFP and FM1-43, 561/570–650 nm for TagRFP, 561/580–650 nm for mRFP, 488/650–700 nm for FM4-64, and 488/650–750 nm for Chl autofluorescence. All images were obtained in sequential scan mode. Image contrast was adjusted using the Fiji software (CITATION; http://fiji.sc/Fiji). Plant specimens were mounted in 50 µl of liquid medium containing 0.5 µM boric acid (CITATION). Multiphoton image acquisition was performed using a FLUOVIEW FV1000MPE (Olympus) equipped with a × 25 water immersion objective lens (NA = 1.05). The laser excitation wavelength for GFP was 980 nm. Images were obtained using the FV10-ASW software (ver. 01.07; Olympus). Plant specimens were sandwiched between two 0.12–0.17 mm thickness cover glasses (Matsunami) with 50 µl of liquid medium containing 0.5 µM boric acid (CITATION). VAEM was performed using an IX81 microscope (Olympus) equipped with a DV2 multichannel imaging system (Photometrics) and an iXon3 EM-CCD camera (ANDOR) using a UAPON 150XOTIRF objective lens (×150, NA = 1.45). For multicolor imaging, frames were taken sequentially with 500 ms exposure at 2 s intervals. For single-color imaging in Fig. 6A and C, and Supplementary Movie S5 and Supplementary Data, frames were captured continuously with 200 ms exposure. Image capture was performed using Metamorph software (ver. 7.7.9.0; Molecular Devices). All images were processed using the Subtract Background algorithm (rolling ball radius = 50 pixels) equipped in Fiji software. For Supplementary Movies S2 and Supplementary Data, images were additionally processed using the Gaussian Blur algorithm (radius = 1.0) in the Fiji software to enhance visualization. Two- and three-dimensional kymographs were created using the Dynamic Reslice and 3D Viewer plugins of the Fiji software, respectively. For co-localization analysis between BOR1–GFP and DRP1A–TagRFP, fluorescent puncta of BOR1–GFP (n = 405) and DRP1A–TagRFP (n = 256) were selected using circular regions of interest (ROIs; 9 pixels in diameter). The ROIs were transferred to the BOR1–GFP channel, and the number of BOR1–GFP particles localized within the ROIs was counted. For the time-lapse quantification of the fluorescent signals of BOR1–GFP and DRP1A–TagRFP puncta, fluorescent foci were selected using circular ROIs (8 pixels in diameter), and the average intensity within the ROIs was quantified. Stock solutions were prepared as follows: FM1-43FX (1 mm in water, stored at 4°C, Thermo Fisher Scientific), FM4-64 (1 mm in water, stored at 4°C, Thermo Fisher Scientific), BFA (50 mm in DMSO solvent, stored at –30°C, Sigma Aldrich), cycloheximide (CHX; 25 mm in water, stored at –30°C, Wako Pure Chemicals), β-estradiol (40 mm in DMSO, stored at –30°C, Sigma Aldrich) and DAPI (10 mg ml–1 in DMSO, stored at –30°C, Wako Pure Chemicals). For the quantification of the constitutive endocytosis of BOR1, plants were treated with 50 µM CHX for 30 min in a liquid medium containing 0.5 µM boric acid; they were then treated with 50 µM CHX and 50 µM BFA or 0.1% (v/v) DMSO for 1 h. For quantification, confocal images of the epidermal cell layer located close to the cover slips were used. The apical and basal PM domains and cytoplasmic regions were selected by segmented lines and the polygon tool of the Fiji software, respectively, and the average intensity of the cytoplasmic region was divided by that of the whole cell region to calculate internalization levels (see Supplementary Fig. S9). Plant tissues were stained with 0.3 µM FM1-43 in low-B liquid medium for 1 min and then washed three times with the liquid medium. Tissues were observed at 20 min after staining. Total protein was prepared from approximately 60 mg of 8-day-old seedlings of transgenic plants harboring ProBOR1:BOR1-GFP and Est>>DRP1AWT-mRFP or Est>>DRP1AK47A-mRFP. For induction of DRP1AWT/K47A–mRFP, 7-day-old plants were treated with 10 µM β-estradiol or DMSO for 1 d. Plants were lysed in lysis buffer [50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5), 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1% (v/v) Triton X-100, protease inhibitor cocktail (Complete Mini, Roche)]. Protein extracts were heated at 70°C for 10 min in NuPAGE LDS sample buffer containing 5% (v/v) 2-mercaptoethanol. Proteins were separated on NuPAGE 4–12% Bis-Tris gel (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and transferred to a PVDF membrane. The membrane was blocked in 1% (w/v) skimmed milk, incubated with rabbit anti-ADL1p GTPase domain-specific antibody (1 : 2,000; CITATION) and then with horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated anti-rabbit IgG secondary antibody (1 : 100,000; Sigma-Aldrich; Cat A0545). The signals were detected using Luminata Forte Western HRP substrate (Merck Millipore; Cat WBLUF0100). The membrane was subsequently stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue. To quantify the polarity index of BOR1–GFP, the apical and basal domains of the PM in epidermal cells in the meristematic and transition zones were selected using the segmented line tool and quantified using the Fiji software. The fluorescent signal of the stele-side half was divided by that of the soil-side half (see Fig. 8D). For quantification of the polarity index in the cell plate and daughter membrane, plants were stained with 2 µM FM4-64 for 30 min. The fluorescent signals of BOR1–GFP and FM4-64 in the cell plate and daughter membrane were selected using the segmented line tool and quantified using the Fiji software. The ratio of GFP fluorescence intensity to that of FM4-64 fluorescence at the stele side divided by that at the soil side was calculated (Fig. 2D).
