!~ABS~! Phosphatidylglycerol (PG) is an indispensable lipid constituent of photosynthetic membranes, whose function is essential in photosynthetic activity. In higher plants, the biological function of the last step of PG biosynthesis remains elusive because an enzyme catalyzing this reaction step, namely phosphatidylglycerophosphate phosphatase (PGPP), has been a missing piece in the entire glycerolipid metabolic map. Here, we report the identification and characterization of AtPGPP1 encoding a PGPP in Arabidopsis thaliana. Heterologous expression of AtPGPP1 in yeast Δgep4 complemented growth phenotype and PG-producing activity, suggesting that AtPGPP1 encodes a functional PGPP. The GUS reporter assay showed that AtPGPP1 was preferentially expressed in hypocotyl, vasculatures, trichomes, guard cells, and stigmas. A subcellular localization study with GFP reporter indicated that AtPGPP1 is mainly localized at chloroplasts. A T-DNA-tagged knockout mutant of AtPGPP1, designated pgpp1-1, showed pale green phenotype with reduced PG and chlorophyll contents but no defect in embryo development. In the pgpp1-1 mutant, ultrastructure of plastids indicated defective development of chloroplasts and measurement of photosynthetic parameters showed impaired photosynthetic activity. These results suggest that AtPGPP1 is a primary plastidic PGPP required for PG biosynthesis and photosynthetic function in Arabidopsis.
!~RES~! To identify a putative PGPP in Arabidopsis, we referred to Cre04.g21990 (CrPGPP1) and Gep4p, functional PGPPs in C. reinhardtii (Hung et al., CITATION) and S. cerevisiae (Osman et al., CITATION), respectively. Based on the homology search, At3g58830 (hereby named as AtPGPP1) was found to be the only candidate for Arabidopsis PGPP whose deduced amino acid sequence has overall homology to that of CrPGPP1 and Gep4p. Multiple sequence alignment showed that AtPGPP1 shares high similarity with CrPGPP1 and S. cerevisiae Gep4p (Figure 1b). A typical haloacid dehalogenase (HAD)-like phosphatase motif [DXDX(V/T)] was found in the deduced polypeptide sequence of AtPGPP1 (Figure 1b). The similarity and identity among AtPGPP1, CrPGPP1, and Gep4p ranged 24.5–43.5% and 16.0–30.8%, respectively (Figure 1c). These values were higher between AtPGPP1 and CrPGPP1 than between CrPGPP1 and Gep4p. These findings suggest that At3g58830 may encode a functional PGPP; thus we carried out the following studies to further characterize its function. To examine whether AtPGPP1 is a functional PGPP, we conducted heterologous complementation assay in S. cerevisiae Δgep4 mutant (Figure 2a). Compared to the wild type cells, the cells lacking functional Gep4p (Δgep4) displayed an impaired growth rate at 30°C and were unable to grow at 37°C (Osman et al., CITATION). At both 30°C and 37°C, however, Δgep4 harboring AtPGPP1 or GEP4 recovered severe cell growth defect in the Δgep4 mutant (Figure 2a), demonstrating that AtPGPP1 functions in yeast to complement the growth defect of Δgep4. To further examine whether the defective PG biosynthesis in Δgep4 is recovered by the heterologous complementation, we performed radiolabelling experiment using [32P]-phosphate. Whereas intensity of radioactive spots for PG and its subsequent reaction product cardiolipin (CL) was faint in Δgep4 compared with the wild type, the radioactive intensities were recovered in Δgep4 expressing AtPGPP1 as well as CrPGPP1 and GEP4 (Figure 2b). Taken together, these data suggest that AtPGPP1 is a functional PGPP for PG biosynthesis. [[FIGURE]] To characterize the expression pattern of AtPGPP1 at tissue level, we constructed the stable transformant, which harbours ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GUS (pJL99) in pgpp1-1, a T-DNA-tagged mutant of PGPP1 (described later), and observed the GUS staining in various tissues. In the mature embryo, AtPGPP1–GUS was prominent at the shoot apical meristem (Figure 3a). In 3-day-old seedlings, obvious expression of AtPGPP1–GUS presented in hypocotyl and mature part of roots but not in root tip (Figure 3b). In 10-day-old seedlings, GUS staining was observed in hypocotyl and vasculature of cotyledons (Figure 3c), trichomes in emerging true leaves (Figure 3d), and joint part of the root to shoot (Figure 3e). In mature leaves, AtPGPP1–GUS signal was found in guard cells (Figure 3f) in addition to trichomes. In floral organs, GUS staining was stronger in mature flowers than immature floral buds (Figure 3g); it was observed mainly in the stigma of pistils (Figure 3h) and vasculature in the filament of stamens (Figure 3i). These expression patterns showed that AtPGPP1 is expressed not ubiquitously but rather specifically in the limited tissues or cell types as described above. [[FIGURE]] Phosphatidylglycerol is synthesized in the plastids, mitochondria, and the endoplasmic reticula (Moore, CITATION; Andrews and Mudd, CITATION; Griebau and Frentzen, CITATION). To find out the subcellular localization of AtPGPP1, we constructed transgenic plants, which contain ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GFP (pJL95) in the pgpp1-1 mutant. Confocal microscopy observation showed that AtPGPP1–GFP fluorescence was co-localized with the chlorophyll autofluorescence in the mesophyll cells of true leaves (Figure 4a–d), suggesting that AtPGPP1 is localized at chloroplasts. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the in vivo function of AtPGPP1, we isolated two alleles of T-DNA insertional mutants, pgpp1-1 (SALKseq_069145) and pgpp1-2 (SALKseq_037418) (Figure 5a). The location of T-DNA in the pgpp1-1 and pgpp1-2 was found to be at the 2nd and 1st introns, respectively, by DNA sequencing. To analyze the expression level of AtPGPP1 in the mutants, we performed RT-PCR analysis and found that a faint band for PGPP1 was visible in pgpp1-2 but not in pgpp1-1 (Figure 5b). We confirmed this result by quantitative RT-PCR (Figure 5c); The results showed that pgpp1-1 had no detectable transcripts for PGPP1, while pgpp1-2 is a leaky mutant of AtPGPP1, whose transcript level was 10% of wild-type level (Figure 5c). Hence, we used pgpp1-1 for the subsequent characterization. Comparing with the wild type, the pgpp1-1 but not the pgpp1-2 displayed pale green phenotypes in the vegetative tissues (Figures 5d and S1). To test if this phenotype was caused by a mutation in PGPP1, we performed genetic complementation of pgpp1-1 by AtPGPP1 gene (ProPGPP1:PGPP1). The transgenic line, which stably expresses AtPGPP1 in pgpp1-1 background (pJL93), recovered the pale green phenotype, showing no visible difference from the wild-type plants (Figure 5d). Moreover, the phenotype was complemented also by ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GUS and ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GFP (Figure S2). These results indicate that the knockout of PGPP1 produces pale green phenotypes. [[FIGURE]] We examined the growth phenotype of pgpp1-1. After the onset of reproductive growth, entire plant body of pgpp1-1 including rosette leaves, stems, cauline leaves, sepals, and siliques (Figure 6a) appeared pale green as compared with the wild type. Since pgpp1-1 showed the pale green phenotype (Figures 5d and 6a), we observed the autofluorescence of chlorophyll in both wild type and pgpp1-1 leaves. As compared with the wild type (Figure 6b), autofluorescence of chlorophyll was diminished in pgpp1-1 (Figure 6c). Notably, the pgpp1-1 mutant also showed the enlarged internal space between mesophyll cells in the cross-section of leaves (Figure 6e) in comparison with the wild type (Figure 6d). [[FIGURE]] Next, we observed embryonic development in the pgpp1-1 (Figure 7). During embryo development, chloroplasts are observed initially at the early heart stage and the number of chloroplasts gradually increased until the end of embryo development (Schulz and Jensen, CITATION; Mansfield and Briarty, CITATION). The embryos of pgpp1-1 appeared pale green as compared with that of wild type at the heart (Figure 7a,i), torpedo (Figure 7c,k), and bent-cotyledon stages (Figure 7e,m). The autofluorescence of chlorophyll at the bent-cotyledon stage was considerably weaker in pgpp1-1 as compared with the wild type (Figure 7g,o). However, no morphological difference was observed at these developmental stages between the wild type (Figure 7b,d,f) and the pgpp1-1 embryos (Figure 7j,l,n). Thus, deficiency of AtPGPP1 led to the pale green phenotype both in embryonic and post-embryonic development but not morphological defects of embryos. [[FIGURE]] To study the function of AtPGPP1 in lipid biosynthesis in vivo, we analyzed polar glycerolipid contents in 14-day-old seedlings of the pgpp1-1 and the wild type. The results showed that overall PG level in the pgpp1-1 was reduced to nearly 56% that of the wild type (Figure 8a). In addition, MGDG level was reduced by 22% while PI level increased by 20% in the pgpp1-1 (Figure 8a). These changes were also reported previously in pgp1 and cds4 cds5 mutants, which are defective in the biosynthesis of PG in plastids (Hagio et al., CITATION; Zhou et al., CITATION). To examine whether PG content in the plastids is reduced in the pgpp1-1, we isolated intact chloroplasts from the wild type and pgpp1-1, and quantified the amount of PG. Comparing with the wild type, the amount of PG in mol% was reduced by 35% in the pgpp1-1 (Figure 8b). The fatty acid compositions of glycerolipid classes were also compared between the wild type and pgpp1-1 as shown in Figure 9. In PG of the pgpp1-1, 18:3 was significantly reduced and saturated fatty acids (16:0 and 18:0) and 18:2 were increased. Besides, a significant decrease was found for 16:1(t), a signature fatty acid species in plastidial PG. In other plastidic lipid classes, MGDG and DGDG, similar changes were observed, namely, a decrease in 18:3 (DGDG) and an increase in saturated fatty acids (16:0 and 18:0). In extraplastidic phospholipids (PC, PE, and PI), the changes were less obvious but some decrease in 18:3 was observed. Thus, the knockout of PGPP1 significantly reduced the PG amount including the plastidial PG and affected the molecular species of PG and contents of other plastidic lipid classes, particularly MGDG. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The chloroplast localization of PGPP1, pale green phenotype of the pgpp1-1 and its primary defects in contents of PG and other plastidic lipid classes suggest that the pgpp1-1 is mainly defective in the chloroplast function. We therefore observed the cellular ultrastructure in 20-day-old rosette leaves of pgpp1-1. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) observation showed that, compared with the wild type (Figure 10a), underdeveloped chloroplasts were observed in a cell of pgpp1-1 (Figure 10b). Magnified images of the plastids showed the altered shape of thylakoid membranes (Figure 10d) and thinner grana stacks (Figure 10f) in the pgpp1-1 comparing with that of the wild type (Figure 10c,e). Besides, the number of grana appeared to be less with slight bending in the pgpp1-1 (Figure 10f). These results indicated that AtPGPP1 is required for the development of thylakoid membranes and chloroplast function. [[FIGURE]] To investigate the photosynthetic characteristics of the pgpp1-1, we measured the pigment content and the photosynthetic parameters. The overall spectral profile of photosynthetic pigment after normalization was similar between the wild type and pgpp1-1 (Figure 11a), so pigment composition is not substantially changed in the mutant. However, as compared with the wild type, levels of chlorophyll a and b were decreased by 19% (Figure 11b) and 18% (Figure 11c) in pgpp1-1, respectively, which gave the ratio of chlorophyll a/b to be insignificant between pgpp1-1 and the wild type (WT) (Figure 11d). Conversely, the amount of carotenoids showed no significant difference between the wild type and pgpp1-1 (Figure 11e). We next measured the photosynthetic electron transport activity in the mutant using imaging pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) fluorometer. A lower value of maximum quantum efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) was detected particularly in the emerging true leaves of dark-adapted pgpp1-1 compared with that of wild type (Figure 12a,b), indicating that the photochemical reaction in PSII is partially inhibited in the mutant. However, the PAM analysis under increased actinic light showed that the effective quantum yield of PSII (YII) under light was similar between the wild type and pgpp1-1 (Figure 12c). Consistent with the decreased Fv/Fm value in the mutant, the maximum quantum efficiency of open PSII under light (Fv′/Fm′) was slightly but consistently lower in pgpp1-1 than the wild type under all ranges of light intensity (Figure 12d). Inversely, the coefficient of photochemical quenching (qP), a parameter of the redox state of the PSII acceptor side, was increased in pgpp1-1 (Figure 12e). These data suggest that PSII in the mutant was at more open (oxidized) states under given light than the wild type, presumably because of the lower PSII photochemical efficiency in the mutant as represented by the lower Fv′/Fm′. To further evaluate the electron transport activity in the pgpp1-1, we measured the induction kinetics of chlorophyll fluorescence in leaves in a logarithmic time series (Figure 12f). In both the wild type and pgpp1-1, a polyphasic increase of chlorophyll fluorescence was observed during actinic light illumination, which represents a stepwise retardation of the photosynthetic electron flow from primary photochemical reactions in PSII to later reduction processes at the acceptor side of PSI by actinic light. In the mutant, chlorophyll fluorescence rose faster than that in the wild type at the fast to the middle phases, indicating a rapid saturation of the reaction centres of PSII. Taken together, these results demonstrated that the pgpp1-1 mutation decreases chlorophyll contents and intrinsic photochemical efficiency of PSII. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis plants (Columbia-0 ecotype) were grown under continuous light condition at 22°C. Murashige and Skoog medium was used at half-strength concentration for plant culture (Murashige and Skoog, CITATION). Seeds of T-DNA mutants (pgpp1-1, SALKseq_069145; pgpp1-2, SALKseq_037418) were obtained from European Arabidopsis Stock Centre (NASC, Leicestershire, UK). Homozygous plants were isolated by PCR-based genotyping with gene-specific primers (PP13/PP14) and T-DNA-specific primers (PP13/YN749). See Table S1 for the oligonucleotide primers used in this study. The multiple alignment of the protein sequences among AtPGPP1 (At3g58830), CrPGPP1, and ScGep4p was assembled with use of ClustalW (http://www.genome.jp/tools/clustalw/). The amino acids identity and similarity were analyzed through EMBOSS open software suite (http://mobyle.pasteur.fr/cgi-bin/portal.py?#forms::matcher). Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells were grown in YPD medium. Cells harbouring the URA3 marker plasmid were grown in synthetic complete medium lacking uracil (SC-Ura). A 1056-bp fragment of the ORF of AtPGPP1 was amplified with cDNA prepared from wild-type Arabidopsis by PCR with the primers CH752 and CH753, and then inserted into EcoRI and XhoI sites of pCH078 (Hung et al., CITATION) to construct pCH153. Complementation assay including control strains was performed as previously described (Hung et al., CITATION). Briefly, culture of the wild type, Δgep4, and Δgep4 harboring ScGEP4 or AtPGPP1 was serially diluted by 10-fold from left to right, starting at OD600 of 0.1, and 5 μl each was spotted on SC-Ura agar plates. The plates were incubated for 2 days under the indicated temperature. Image is representative of three replicates. For construction of ProPGPP1:PGPP1, a 2237-bp genomic sequence for PGPP1 (ProPGPP1:PGPP1) was amplified by PCR with the primers JL59 and JL60. The fragment was cloned into the pENTR/D_TOPO plasmid vector (Invitrogen, Waltham, MA, USA) to obtain pJL31, which was then recombined into the pBGW destination vector with the use of LR Clonase (Invitrogen) (Karimi et al., CITATION) to obtain pJL93. To create the GUS reporter construct translationally fused to the C-terminus of PGPP1, ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GUS, the genomic sequence for ProPGPP1:PGPP1 except the stop codon was amplified by PCR with the primers JL59 and JL296. The fragment was cloned into the pENTR/D_TOPO plasmid vector, and the resulting plasmid pJL94 was recombined into the pGWB633 destination vector (Nakagawa et al., CITATION) using the LR Clonase to produce pJL99. To create the sGFP fluorescent reporter construct fused translationally to the C-terminus of PGPP1, ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GFP, pJL94 was recombined into the pGWB604 destination vector (Nakagawa et al., CITATION) using the LR Clonase to obtain pJL95. The resulting plasmid pJL93, pJL95, and pJL99 were transformed into the pgpp1-1 via Agrobacterium–mediated transformation. In total, 24 T1 plants were selected for each transgenic line by spraying 0.1% Basta solution onto seedlings on soil, and seeds were harvested individually. The obtained T2 seeds were selected by genotyping and strength in the expression of reporter gene by observation. Lines used for the experiments were: ProPGPP1:PGPP1, lines No. 5; ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GUS, No. 16; and ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GFP, No. 7. Total RNA was isolated from 14-day-old seedlings by use of TRI Reagent® (Invitrogen) including DNase treatment, and cDNA was synthesized by use of the SuperScript III First-Strand Synthesis kit (Invitrogen). RT-PCR was performed with primers JL63 and JL296 for PGPP1, and YN164 and YN165 for ACT. For qRT-PCR, JL150 and JL151 were used for PGPP1. Radiolabelling assay of PGPP activity was conducted as previously described (Hung et al., CITATION). Briefly, logarithmically growing yeast cells were resuspended in 5 ml SC-Ura medium containing 30 μCi KH232PO4 (PerkinElmer, Waltham, MA, USA) at the OD600 of 5. After shaking incubation for 8 h at room temperature, lipids were extracted as described in Bligh and Dyer (CITATION), spotted on a thin layer chromatography (TLC) plate (Silica gel 60G; Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) and developed with chloroform/methanol/acetic acid (65:25:8, v/v/v) (Haselier et al., CITATION) along with PG and CL (Sigma-Aldrich, Darmstadt, Germany) as standards. Radioactive spots were visualized by Imaging Plate (Fuji Film, Tokyo, Japan) and BAS-2500 (GE Healthcare, Chicago, IL, USA). Unlabelled PG and CL were stained with 0.01% primuline in 80% (v/v) acetone and detected under UV light. Twelve freshly harvested #3 and 4 leaves of 14-day-old wild type and pgpp1-1 were used to extract pigments with 1 ml 80% (v/v) acetone. After extraction, the samples were centrifuged and the absorbance of supernatant was determined by spectrophotometry (Beckman Coulter DU 800 Spectrophotometer, Brea, CA, USA) at wavelengths 470.0, 645.0, 646.8, 663.2 and 663 nm. Chlorophyll amount was calculated as previously described (Arnon, CITATION). Data are shown as the mean ± standard deviation (SD) of three biological replicates. The absorption spectra of pigments prepared from same samples were determined by spectrophotometry (Beckman Coulter DU 800 Spectrophotometer) with wavelength scanning from 350 to 800 nm, and normalized at 720 nm. Data are shown as the mean ± SD of three replicates. Imaging PAM M-series (Walz, Germany) was used to determine the photosynthetic parameters. Prior to measurements, intact 14-day-old seedlings on MS agar plates were incubated in the dark for 30 min. Then chlorophyll fluorescence was analyzed in whole seedlings with Imaging PAM. After the Fv/Fm measurement, plants were exposed for 5 min to each light intensity to determine the light-response curves of YII, Fv′/Fm′ and qP. Averaged fluorescence values in a circular area were collected from immature leaves emerging from the shoot apical meristem and matured first or second true leaves with the ImagingWin software. Photosynthetic parameters were calculated as described (Fujii et al., CITATION). For fluorescence induction kinetics, seedlings were adapted in darkness for 15 min, and chlorophyll fluorescence was measured in a logarithmic time series between 200 μsec and 10 sec under continuous actinic light (455 nm) with a fluorometer (FL 3500; Photon Systems Instruments, Brno, Czech Republic). The embryos of the wild type and pgpp1-1 mutant were dissected at the heart, cotyledon, and bent-cotyledon stages. For the DIC images of developing embryos, the seeds of the wild type and pgpp1-1 mutant at the same developmental stages were cleared by clearance solution (chloral hydrate:glycerol:water = 8:2:1 by volume), and then Normaski images were acquired using an upright microscope (Zeiss Axio imager Z1, Oberkochen, Germany). Harvested fresh tissues were incubated in GUS staining solution [10 mm EDTA, 5 mm potassium ferricyanide, 5 mm potassium ferrocyanide, 0.1% (w/v) Triton X-100, 0.5 mg ml−1 X-Gluc (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-d-glucuronide) in 100 mm phosphate buffer] overnight at 37°C. GUS-stained tissues were cleared in 70% ethanol. Images were acquired with Stemi 2000-C stereomicroscope equipped with a Nikon D700 digital camera and upright microscope (Zeiss Axio imager Z1). Fluorescence of sGFP in 10-day-old seedlings of the ProPGPP1:PGPP1–GFP pgpp1-1/- line No.7 was observed under a microscope (LSM 510 Meta; Carl Zeiss, Inc., Oberkochen, Germany) equipped with an LCI Plan-Neofluar 63 × /1.3 NA immersion lens, a Plan-Apochromat 20 × /0.8 NA lens, and a Plan-Apochromat 10 × /0.45 NA lens. Rosette leaves of 20-day-old seedlings of the wild type and pgpp1-1 were fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde and 4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 m sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) at room temperature for 4 h. After rinsing three times for 20 min with the buffer, samples were post-fixed in OsO4 (1% in sodium phosphate buffer) at room temperature for 4 h and rinsed three times with phosphate buffer. Samples were dehydrated in an ethanol series and propylene oxide, embedded in Spurr's resin, and sectioned with use of a Leica EM UC6 ultramicrotome. Ultra-thin sections (70–90 nm) were stained with uranyl acetate and lead citrate, and observed under a transmission electron microscope (Philip CM 100, FEI, Hillsboro, OR, USA) at 80 kV. The images were captured by use of a Gatan Orius CCD camera. The thick sections were used for microscopy analysis of leaf morphology. Intact chloroplasts were fractioned as described previously with slight modification (Kley et al., CITATION). In brief, 10 g of fresh rosette leaves were harvest and crushed in 225 ml of 1× chloroplast buffer [0.33 m sorbitol, 30 mm HEPES/KOH (pH 7.5), 2 mm EDTA, and 0.5 mm of freshly added DTT] using a Waring blender (VWR, Darmstadt, Germany). After filtration through Miracloth (Merck Millipore, Darmstadt, Germany), the suspension was centrifuged for 15 min at 2500 g at 4°C. The pellet was then resuspended in 3 ml of 1× chloroplast buffer and carefully loaded onto a 50% Percoll gradient (8 ml), and centrifuged for 30 min at 3200 g at 4°C. The collected pellet was washed twice with 10 ml of 1× chloroplast buffer, and centrifuged for 5 min at 1500 g at 4°C. To measure PG contents, the washed intact chloroplasts were first incubated with 1 ml isopropanol with 0.01% butylated hydroxytoluene at 75°C to inactivate phospholipase D activity, then total lipids were extracted as described (Folch et al., CITATION). PG was isolated by two-dimentional TLC and quantified with gas chromatography as described (Nakamura et al., CITATION). Polar glycerolipids of 14-day-old seedlings of the wild type and pgpp1-1 were analyzed as described (Lin et al., CITATION). Briefly, total lipids were extracted using Bligh & Dyer's method (Bligh and Dyer, CITATION; Nakamura et al., CITATION) and each polar glycerolipid class was separated on a silica gel TLC plate using a solvent system of chloroform:methanol:aqueous ammonia = 120:80:8 (vol/vol/vol) for the first dimension and chloroform:methanol:acetic acid:water = 170:20:15:3 (vol/vol/vol/vol) for the second dimension (Nakamura et al., CITATION). Each lipid spot was identified by spraying primuline solution and visualizing under the UV light, which was scraped off, and acyl moieties were hydrolyzed and methylesterified with HCl–MeOH containing pentadecanoic acid (C15:0) as an internal standard. Fatty acid methyl esters were quantified using a gas chromatograph (GC-2010; Shimadzu, Kyoto, Japan) equipped with a ULBON HR-SS-10 column (Shinwa Chemical Industries, Kyoto, Japan). Data are the mean ± standard deviation (SD) of three biologically independent samples.
