!~ABS~! Upon penetration of the host cell wall, the powdery mildew fungus develops a feeding structure named the haustorium in the invaded host cell. Concomitant with haustorial biogenesis, the extrahaustorial membrane (EHM) is formed to separate the haustorium from the host cell cytoplasm. The Arabidopsis resistance protein RPW8.2 is specifically targeted to the EHM where it activates haustorium-targeted resistance against powdery mildew. RPW8.2 belongs to a small family with six members in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Whether Homologs of RPW8 (HR) 1 to HR4 are also localized to the EHM and contribute to resistance has not been determined. Here, we report that overexpression of HR1, HR2, or HR3 led to enhanced resistance to powdery mildew, while genetic depletion of HR2 or HR3 resulted in enhanced susceptibility, indicating that these RPW8 homologs contribute to basal resistance. Interestingly, we found that N-terminally YFP-tagged HR1 to HR3 are also EHM-localized. This suggests that EHM-targeting is an ancestral feature of the RPW8 family. Indeed, two RPW8 homologs from Brassica oleracea tested also exhibit EHM-localization. Domain swapping analysis between HR3 and RPW8.2 suggests that sequence diversification in the N-terminal 146 amino acids of RPW8.2 probably functionally distinguishes it from other family members. Moreover, we found that N-terminally YFP-tagged HR3 is also localized to the plasma membrane and the fungal penetration site (the papilla) in addition to the EHM. Using this unique feature of YFP-HR3, we obtained preliminary evidence to suggest that the EHM is unlikely derived from invagination of the plasma membrane, rather it may be mainly synthesized de novo.
!~RES~! The RPW8 gene locus in Arabidopsis Ms-0 accession contains RPW8.1 and RPW8.2 and three homologs of RPW8, designated HR1 (At3g50450), HR2 (At3g50460), and HR3 (At3g50470; CITATION). The powdery mildew-susceptible accession Col-0 lacks RPW8.1 and RPW8.2, but contains HR4 (At3g50480) in the same location, along with HR1, HR2, and HR3 (CITATION, CITATION). Because Col-0 mutants including those that are defective in salicylic acid (SA)-signaling display enhanced disease susceptibility to powdery mildew (CITATION), we reasoned that Col-0 is still capable of mounting a certain level of SA-dependent and perhaps SA-independent basal resistance. To test if HR1 to HR4 play a role in basal resistance in Col-0, we first overexpressed HR1, HR2, HR3, and HR4 using the 35S promoter together with the native 5′ regulatory sequence (496 bp for HR3, 1000 bp for the rest), a demonstrated strategy shown to effectively achieve higher expression of RPW8.1 and RPW8.2 (CITATION), in Col-gl (Col-0 containing the glabrous mutation gl1-1). For each DNA construct, >30 T1 transgenic plants were generated and five independent homozygous lines in the T3 or T4 generation were tested with a well-adapted powdery mildew isolate Golovinomyces cichoracearum (Gc) UCSC1. Plants of all tested lines transgenic for 35S::HR1, 35S::HR2, or 35S::HR3 displayed obvious enhanced diseases resistance compared to Col-gl, whereas plants transgenic for 35S::HR4 were as susceptible as Col-gl (Fig. 1, A and C). Reverse-transcription (RT)-PCR confirmed that expression levels of the four RPW8 homologs were much higher in the transgenic lines than the respective endogenous genes in Col-gl (Fig. 1B). These results suggest that HR1, HR2, and HR3, but not HR4, may contribute to basal resistance in Col-0 against powdery mildew. [[FIGURE]] Next, we identified one T-DNA knockdown (kd) line (Salk_056764) for HR1 (designated HR1-kd1), one knockout (ko) line (Salk_093095) for HR2 (designated HR2-ko1) and two knockout lines (SALK _122954 and WiscDsLox420C08) for HR3 (designated HR3-ko1 and HR3-ko2) based on RT-PCR results (Fig. 1D and Supplemental Fig. S1). Plants of these mutant lines were inoculated with Gc UCSC1 along with plants of Col-0 and Col-NahG, a transgenic line expressing a bacterial SA hydrolase (CITATION). Except for HR1-kd1, the remaining three T-DNA lines exhibited a small but reproducible increase in fungal spores on the leaf surface 10-12 d postinoculation (dpi) when compared to Col-0, although they were not as susceptible as Col-NahG (Fig. 1, E and F). Disease quantification showed that plants of the HR2 and HR3 mutant lines produced approximately 25% to approximately 45% more fungal spores than Col-0 while Col-NahG supported nearly twice as many spores as Col-0 (Fig. 1F) at 12 dpi, indicating that genetic depletion of HR2 and HR3 results in enhanced disease susceptibility albeit at a lower degree compared to SA depletion by the SA hydrolase encoded by NahG. These results, together with the data from overexpression analyses, demonstrate that HR1, HR2, and HR3 probably contribute to basal resistance against powdery mildew. In a recent study, we found that two R/K-R/K-X-R/K motifs comprise the core EHM-targeting signal (ETS) in RPW8.2 (CITATION). Sequence analysis showed that while the first ETS has some variations, the second ETS is highly conserved among all the RPW8 family members in Arabidopsis and three RPW8 homologs from B. oleracea (Supplemental Fig. S2). Thus, we wondered if other Arabidopsis RPW8 family members are also EHM-resident proteins. RPW8.1-YFP has shown to be mainly expressed in mesophyll cells when expressed from its native promoter [NP; (CITATION)]. Interestingly, when expressed from the RPW8.2 promoter, RPW8.1-YFP was also found to be EHM-localized (CITATION). To examine subcellular localization of HR1 to HR4, each of these genes was translationally fused with YFP at the C terminus, and the fusion constructs were stably expressed in Col-gl by their respective NPs. Unexpectedly, we were unable to detect any fluorescent signal before or after inoculation with Gc UCSC1 from at least 30 independent T1 transgenic lines examined for each construct despite the detection of the transgene expression by RT-PCR in two representative lines per construct (not shown). Western blotting using an anti-GFP antibody recognizing YFP also revealed no protein accumulation in any of these lines (Supplemental Fig. S3A). While T1 plants transgenic for NP::HR1-YFP, NP::HR2-YFP, or NP::HR4-YFP appeared phenotypically normal in growth and development and were susceptible to powdery mildew (Fig. 2A), approximately 55% of T1 plants transgenic for NP::HR3-YFP exhibited stunted growth with leaf necrosis and varied degree of enhanced resistance to Gc UCSC1 (Fig. 2, B and C). These observations suggest that these fusion proteins cannot accumulate to levels detectable by confocal microscopy or western blotting, and that HR3-YFP is also toxic when stably expressed in Arabidopsis. To make sure that these fusion constructs are translated into proteins, we transiently expressed them in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves by agroinfiltration. Again, no YFP signal was detectable. We then transiently coexpressed each of the constructs with the coat protein of Turnip crinkle virus that also functions to suppress RNA silencing in host plants (CITATION). Interestingly, except for NP::HR4-YFP, the remaining three constructs produced detectable, albeit weak, YFP signal. HR1-YFP and HR3-YFP appeared to be localized in the PM in epidermal cells, punctate spots were also seen around chloroplasts in mesophyll cells. However, HR2-YFP was mainly found in the ring structures surrounding chloroplasts in mesophyll cells (Supplemental Fig. S3B), which is reminiscent of RPW8.1-YFP’s localization in mesophyll cells (CITATION). Moreover, consistent with cell death in Arabidopsis lines transgenic for NP::HR3-YFP, we found massive necrosis from the leaf section infiltrated with NP::HR3-YFP only (Supplemental Fig. S3C), demonstrating that HR3-YFP is capable of triggering cell death in both Arabidopsis and N. benthamiana. Taken together, these observations suggest that RPW8 homologs appear to be distinct from RPW8.2 in terms of protein function and accumulation. [[FIGURE]] Given that an HR3-like gene is the probable progenitor of the RPW8 gene family (CITATION), we investigated how RPW8.2 might have functionally diversified from HR3 via the following three aspects. First, we expressed HR3-YFP from the RPW8.2 promoter (R82P) in the Col-gl background. We found that approximately 86% (42 of 49) of transgenic T1 plants showed strong or lethal cell death (Fig. 2D), suggesting that the RPW8.2 promoter is stronger than that of HR3. Again, YFP signal was not detected in any of these transgenic lines even before onset of cell death. Second, because substitution of Asp at 116 to Gly (D116G) in RPW8.2 abolishes RPW8.2-triggered hypersensitive response and resistance (CITATION; CITATION) and D116 is conserved in HR3 (Fig. 3A), we thus made the D116G mutation in HR3 and stably expressed the HR3D116G-YFP fusion protein from the HR3 promoter. We found that this mutation did not affect HR3-YFP–triggered cell death (Fig. 2D) despite that the fusion protein remained undetectable. This suggests that hypersensitive response cell death activated by RPW8.2 is mechanistically distinct from the necrotic cell death caused by HR3-YFP. Third, because both RPW8.1 and RPW8.2 contain a shorter C terminus compared to HR3 (CITATION) and the C terminus SDDS of RPW8.2 appears to be required or full scale interaction with 14-3-3 (CITATION), we made an HR3 variant with a truncation of the C-terminal 26 amino acids (ΔCt26) and the G186 to D substitution to make an SDDS C terminus as seen in RPW8.2 such that the resultant HR3ΔCt26/G186D mutant most structurally resembles RPW8.2 (Fig. 3A). Also, in another construct we removed the C-terminal 65 amino acids of HR3 (HR3ΔCt65) to see if it can make the fusion protein more stable. However, in both cases, cell death still occurred in respective T1 transgenic plants without detectable YFP signal (Fig. 2D). Based on these results we reasoned that the N-terminal portion of HR3 (amino acid 1 to 147) is responsible for (1) inappropriate cell death activated by HR3-YFP and (2) lack of protein accumulation at a detectable level by microscopy when the C-terminal portion is perturbed (i.e. due to fusion with a fluorescent protein). We speculated that these properties of HR3 might have been lost in RPW8.2 as part of its functional diversification from an HR3-like progenitor. [[FIGURE]] To further test the above speculation, we made chimeric constructs by swapping the N- and C-terminal domains of RPW8.2 and HR3, which are designated R82n (amino acids 1 to 146)-HR3c (148 to 213), and HR3n (1 to 147)-R82c (147–174) as shown in Figure 3, A and B. Interestingly, R82n-HR3c-YFP was nicely localized to the EHM (Fig. 3C) and conferred resistance to Gc UCSC1 (Fig. 3D) in a similar manner as RPW8.2-YFP, whereas HR3n-R82c-YFP was still undetectable and lost ability to trigger cell death or resistance. These results suggest that (1) R82n is essential for protein stability, defense and EHM-localization of RPW8.2 while R82c is replaceable, which is compatible with results from our recent mutational analysis of RPW8.2 (CITATION); (2) R82c may be able to suppress HR3n-mediated inappropriate cell death and/or that HR3n-R82c-YFP cannot accumulate to a level sufficient for triggering cell death. However, a more detailed structure-function analysis between HR3 and RPW8.2 is needed to further define the molecular and evolutionary mechanisms underlying the functional diversification between these two proteins. Because HR3 has more likely retained the original conserved function of the HR3-like progenitor gene (CITATION), whereas RPW8.2 has apparently evolved novel resistance function, we also wondered if HR3 is required for RPW8.2-mediated resistance. To test this, we introduced the HR3-ko1 allele to S5, a Col-gl transgenic for a single copy of a genomic fragment containing RPW8.1 and RPW8.2 and their NPs by crossing. We found that S5/HR3-ko1 plants were as resistant as S5 plants (Supplemental Fig. S4), indicating that HR3 is dispensable for RPW8.2-activated resistance. From the above analysis, we were unable to determine if the RPW8 homologs are also EHM-resident proteins due to the unknown intrinsic constraints associated with C-terminal YFP tagging. Neither did we succeed in detection of internally YFP-tagged HR3 by microscopy (not shown). Previously we reported that N-terminally YFP-tagged RPW8.2 (YFP-RPW8.2) was also targeted to the EHM, despite its loss of function in defense (CITATION). We thus made N-terminally YFP-tagged DNA constructs for HR1, HR2, HR3, and HR4 and stably expressed them from the 35S promoter in Col-gl. While YFP signal was still not detectable from any of over 40 transgenic lines expressing YFP-HR4, YFP signal from the remaining three fusion constructs appeared to be distributed in the cytoplasm and possibly in the PM (Fig. 4A). To see if the YFP-HR4 fusion protein can be made, we transiently expressed the construct in N. benthamiana leaves and detected YFP signal along the cell wall possibly in the PM (Fig. 4A). These results suggest that N-terminally YFP-tagged HR4 is unable to accumulate in stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants, which is different from those of the other family members. To determine if the observed YFP signal from YFP-HR3 was indeed in the PM, we transiently coexpressed YFP-HR3 with an Arabidopsis PM aquaporin AtPIP2A in fusion with mCherry (CITATION) in N. benthamiana leaf cells. We found that YFP signal nicely colocalized with mCherry signal (Fig. 4B), indicating that N-terminally YFP-HR3 is localized to the PM. [[FIGURE]] We then inoculated respective transgenic lines with Gc UCSC1 to examine the localization of these fusion proteins in epidermal cells invaded by haustoria. Interestingly, we found that YFP-HR1, YFP-HR2, YFP-HR3 appeared to be preferentially or exclusively localized to the EHM in epidermal cells invaded by haustoria (Fig. 4C), similar to our observation with YFP-RPW8.2 (CITATION). The EHM-localization of YFP-HR3 is confirmed by precise colocalization with RPW8.2-RFP at the EHM (Fig. 5A). Moreover, YFP-HR3 signal remained detectable at the EHM of isolated haustorial complexes extracted from infected leaves coexpressing YFP-HR3 and R82-RFP (Fig. 5B). To exclude the possibility that EHM-localization was caused by overexpression of the fusion protein, we also generated transgenic lines expressing YFP-HR3 from the RPW8.2 promoter. As expected, expression of YFP-HR3 was mostly confined to haustorium-invaded epidermal cells and YFP signals were mostly or exclusively found in the EHM (Fig. 4D). To test if YFP-HR4 is also localized to the EHM, we inoculated YFP-HR4 expressing N. benthamiana leaves with Gc UCSC1, which is weakly infectious on N. benthamiana (CITATION). We also observed YFP signal as small punctae around the haustorium as well as in the cytoplasm (Fig. 4C). All T1 transgenic plants expressing these fusion proteins (> 20 for each construct) were as susceptible as Col-gl to Gc-UCSC1 (not shown), agreeing with the nonfunctional nature of these fusion proteins in defense as seen for YFP-RPW8.2 (CITATION). To rule out the possibility that membrane proteins may be targeted by default to the EHM in the haustorium-invaded cells during the biogenesis of the EHM, we expressed the PM-localized membrane protein SYP131 (CITATION) tagged with YFP from the RPW8.2 promoter in Col-gl. YFP-SYP131 showed exclusive PM localization in haustorium-invaded cells (Fig. 5C), indicating that EHM-targeting of the YFP-tagged RPW8 homologs is attributable to the properties of these proteins rather than a consequence of activation of a default EHM-oriented trafficking pathway. [[FIGURE]] Intriguingly, we also noticed that YFP-HR3 showed focal accumulation around the fungal penetration site where a callosic papilla is formed (Fig. 5A). This localization pattern is reminiscent of PEN1/SYP121, a syntaxin involved in penetration (CITATION; CITATION). To determine the precise localization of YFP-HR3 in relation to the papilla, we stained callose in the papilla by Sirofluor and found that YFP-HR3 was not precisely colocalized with callose, as it was more concentrated in the middle and the rim of the bull’s-eye-shaped callosic papilla (inset in Fig. 5A). Interestingly, we never observed signal from RPW8.2-YFP (RFP) or YFP (RFP)-RPW8.2 in the papilla (Fig. 5, A and D). These observations suggest that papilla-localization of YFP-HR3 is attributable to HR3 and may reflect a cellular function of HR3 that is distinct from RPW8.2. Homologs of RPW8 exist in Brassica species (CITATION) but their biological functions have not been determined. To test if EHM- and papilla localization is indeed an ancestral feature of the RPW8 protein family, we made and expressed YFP fusion (both at the N- and C terminus) constructs for two RPW8 homologs from B. oleracea, BoHRa and BoHRb (CITATION) from the RPW8.2 promoter in Arabidopsis. We found that over 65% T1 lines (> 40) transgenic for BoHRa-YFP or BoHRb-YFP had greatly reduced plant stature with spontaneous cell death lesions and powdery mildew resistance (Fig. 6, A and B), suggesting that these Brassica homologs probably contribute to basal resistance against powdery mildew. Interestingly, unlike HR3-YFP, YFP signal from BoHRa-YFP, albeit weaker compared with RPW8.2-YFP, was detectable in powdery mildew-invaded cells as puncta mostly around the haustorium, with strong accumulation in the fungal penetration site (Fig. 6C). However, we never observed strong diffuse YFP signal from BoHRa-YFP at the EHM, highlighting a clear difference from RPW8.2-YFP. As expected, all the T1 lines (>30) transgenic for YFP-BoHRa or YFP-BoHRb were suscepible to Gc UCSC1 (not shown) and the fusion proteins were also found in the papilla (Fig. 6D) and the EHM (Fig. 6E). These observations further support that the EHM-targeting and papilla-location feature had likely evolved in RPW8 homologs before the separation of Brassica and Arabidopsis. Considering the gradual adaptation process of powdery mildew, it seems likely that during the Arabidopsis-powdery mildew coevolutionary conflict, RPW8.2 has gained EHM-focused localization while losing its papilla-localization. [[FIGURE]] Triple localization (i.e. the EHM, the PM and the papilla) of YFP-HR3, regardless of its relevance to the physiological functions of HR3, may provide a unique tool to interrogate the origin and biogenesis of the EHM and how these membrane compartments might be physically connected with or separated from each other. To test if the EHM is separable from the PM and the papilla, we made transgenic plants coexpressing YFP-HR3 from the 35S promoter and RPW8.2-RFP from the RPW8.2 promoter. Constitutive expression of YFP-HR3 allows PM-labeling by YFP-HR3 before powdery mildew infection, and possible direct lateral diffusion or translocalization of YFP-HR3 from the PM to the EHM during haustorial biogenesis. Leaf sections inoculated with Gc UCSC1 were prepared at 3 dpi and subjected to plasmolysis (incubation with 0.5M NaCl). Interestingly, in some cells, the shrunk cytoplasm with the YFP-HR3-labeled PM was pulled off the cell wall but got stuck at the haustorial neck, wrapping around the haustorial complex with an EHM labeled by both YFP-HR3 and RPW8.2-RFP (Fig. 7A). In other cells, the shrunk cytoplasm with YFP-HR3-labeled PM was nearly or completely torn off the haustorial complex; however, YFP-HR3 localized at the papilla and the EHM remained unaffected (Fig. 7, B and C). These observations demonstrate that the PM is physically separable from the EHM and the papilla, and support that (1) there indeed exists a physical barrier (i.e. the neckband) at the haustorial neck (CITATION) that fixes and separates the PM from the EHM, and (2) the papilla is an extracellular membrane compartment likely formed via exosome secretion (CITATION). It is also important to note that despite that the cytoplasm in most affected cells was shrunk >5 times during plasmolysis, the size and shape of most haustorial complexes did not seem to have significant changes (Fig. 7), suggesting that the EHM and the fungal cell wall in particular may be rigid and resistant to high osmotic pressure. [[FIGURE]] To determine if YFP-HR3 is targeted to the papilla and the EHM via the same or distinct intracellular trafficking pathways, we first tested if there is lateral diffusion and/or an intracellular trafficking pathway between the PM and the EHM. FM4-64 is a lipophilic dye that labels the PM and tracks PM-derived endosomes to various subcellular compartments in a time-dependent manner in approximately 30 min (CITATION). While FM4-64 (20 μM in 0.002% Silwet L-77 aqueous solution) nicely labeled the PM in 5 min to 10 min after application of the dye and then was found to be colocalized with YFP-HR3 in the papilla in approximately 20 min, FM4-64 did not label the EHM in 45 min when all endosomal compartments should be labeled (Fig. 8A). However, if vacuum-infiltrated into the leaf tissue, FM4-64 could immediately stain the EHM (Fig. 8B). Given that the haustorial membrane lobes and the haustorial neck in particular were more strongly stained by FM4-64 (Fig. 8B), we speculate that the haustorial neckband as the presumable diffusion barrier is probably disrupted by vacuum infiltration, resulting in diffusion of the FM4-64 into the extrahaustorial matrix from the apoplast. This observation suggests that while membrane lipids or proteins from the PM can reach the papilla likely via an endosomal trafficking pathway, there is no or little (undetectable) lateral diffusion or endosomal trafficking from the PM to the EHM. [[FIGURE]] We then determined if YFP-HR3’s papilla- and the EHM-localization can be inhibited by the same pharmacological inhibitor. It has been shown that Brefeldin A (BFA), a fungal toxin widely used to block multiple intracellular vesicle trafficking pathways, can inhibit focal accumulation of both GFP-PEN1 and callose deposition to the papilla (CITATION). We treated leaves of plants transgenic for 35S::YFP-HR3 and R82p::RPW8.2-RFP with BFA (300 μM) and found that while EHM localization of YFP-HR3 and RPW8.2-RFP appeared unaffected, both focal accumulation of YFP-HR3 and callose to the papilla were similarly diminished (Fig. 8, C and D). These observations indicate that EHM-oriented protein targeting and papilla-focused protein accumulation are realized via two distinct trafficking pathways.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) accessions Col-0 and/or Col-gl (Col-0 carrying the glabrous mutation) were used for generation of all transgenic lines. All genetic analyses including crossing, genotyping, and phenotyping were conducted in accordance with previous reports (CITATION; CITATION). Unless otherwise indicated, seeds were sown in Sunshine Mix no. 1 or Metro-Mix 360 soil (MD Plant & Suppliers) and cold-treated (4°C for 1 to 2 d). Seedlings were kept under 22°C, 75% RH, short-day (8 h light at approximately 125 μm·m−2·s−1, 16 h dark) conditions for 5 to 6 weeks before pathogen inoculation and/or other treatments. Powdery mildew isolate Golovinomyces cichoracearum UCSC1 (Gc-UCSC1 was maintained on live Col-0 or pad4-1 mutant plants for generation of fresh conidia for inoculation purposes. Inoculation, visual scoring, photographing, and quantification of disease susceptibility were done as described in CITATION. All pathogen infection experiments were repeated at least three times. All primer sequences and related information are summarized in Supplemental-Table 1. Overexpression constructs for HR1, HR2, HR3, and HR4 were created after amplification of the genomic sequence including approximately 1000 bp of the 5′ UTR/promoter region (496 bp in the case of AtHR3) from the T20E23 BAC clone obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center into the binary vector pKMB downstream of the 35S promoter (CITATION). The pCX-DG TA cloning vector described in CITATION was modified to include an approximately 1.8 kb RPW8.2 promoter region by releasing the 35S::GFP fragment upstream of the XcmI and plant NOS terminator using EcoRI digestion and replacement (pCX-DG-R82p). We used this modified TA cloning vector to express the full-length HR3 and HR3 variants, and HR3-RPW8.2 chimeric genes. HR1, HR2, HR3, and HR4 genes with their NPs (approximately 1000 bp upstream of the ATG start codon) were translationally fused at the C terminus with YFP using the pPZPYFP23′ vector described in (CITATION), a modified derivative of pPZP211 (CITATION). HR1, HR2, HR3, and HR4 genes were also translationally fused to YFP at the N terminus under control of the 35S promoter using the pEarleyGate gateway compatible vector series (CITATION). Recombination reactions were completed using pENTR/D-TOPO clones of the full genomic DNA sequences. Gateway LR Clonase II enzyme mix was used to complete the recombination reaction between the entry clones and destination vector (pEG104). Chimeric domain swapping constructs between the N-domain (amino acid 1 to 147; HR3n) and the C-domain (amino acid 148 to 213; HR3c) of HR3 and the N-domain (amino acid 1 to 145; R82n) and the C-domain (amino acid 146 to 174; R82c) of RPW8.2 were created using NcoI adapted primers designed at the end of the second predicted coiled-coil domain of each gene. HR3p::HR3n-R82c and R82p::R82n-HR3c chimeric genes were translationally fused to YFP at the C terminus under control of either the HR3 or RPW8.2 promoter using the previously mentioned pPZPYFP23′ homemade vector (CITATION). Additionally, HR3n-R82c-YFP was also cloned into the homemade pCX-DG-R82p. TA cloning using the modified binary vector pCX-DG-R82p was also used for a variety of other constructs including: YFP-HR1, YFP-HR2, YFP-HR3, YFP-HR4 and RPW8.2-RFP. All generated constructs in binary vectors were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 and stable transgenic Arabidopsis plants were generated by floral dip (CITATION). Fully expanded leaves of approximately 7 week-old RPW8.2-YFP or YFP-HR3/RPW8.2-RFP Col-gl background plants were detached from the base of the petioles and inserted into sterilized Murashige and Skoog agar medium in petri dishes. Detached leaves were inoculated evenly with Gc-UCSC1 and at different time points (0, 12, or 16 hpi) leaf sections (approximately 0.25 cm2) were examined using a model no. LSM710 confocal microscope (Zeiss) at 36 to 42 hpi after haustorial staining with 0.5% propidium iodide (PI). For FM4-64 dye uptake experiments, leaf sections were immersed in a fresh 20 µM FM4-64 solution containing 0.002% Silwet l-77 (Lehele Seeds) for facilitating dye uptake by leaf epidermal cells under nondisruptive conditions. Infiltration of FM4-64 into leaf tissues was done by applying vacuum to leaf samples immersed in an FM4-64 solution containing 0.002% Silwet l-77 in a container for 3 to 5 min followed by immediate confocal imaging. BFA treatments were conducted with a 300 μM solution of BFA dissolved in a 1% DMSO solution in a similar manner as reported in CITATION. For western blotting, Arabidopsis leaves infected with Gc UCSC1 was collected at 5 dpi for preparation of total microsomal proteins as described in CITATION. An anti-GFP antibody (A290; Abcam) was used to detect YFP-fusion proteins from various Arabidopsis transgenic lines. This protocol is modified from the “Isolation of intracellular hyphae by isopycnic centrifugation technique” described in CITATION. Extracted haustoria suspensions were obtained from pooled T2 lines of appropriate transgenic backgrounds between 7 and 8 dpi with Gc UCSC1. Approximately 1 to 2 total grams of infected leaf tissue was macerated 2× in a conventional kitchen blender in a minimum volume of 20 to 30 mL of fresh, chilled haustoria extraction buffer (3-[N-morpholino]-propane sulphonic acid 0.02 M, pH 7.2 containing 0.2 M Suc) for 45 to 60 s. After each 1× blending procedure, macerated plant material was filtered through a 40 µm nylon mesh material using vacuum filtration to remove large fragments of plant debris as most mature Gc UCSC1 haustoria are typically between 15 and 25 μm in size. Final filtrates were centrifuged at 1080g for 15 min at 4°C. Pelleted material containing haustoria was resuspended in 2 to 3 mL of haustoria extraction buffer and kept at 4°C before imaging or further analysis. Laser scanning confocal microscopy was done using a model no. LSM710 confocal microscope (Zeiss) as previously described in CITATION, CITATION). All images and videos presented are single optical sections or Z-stack projected of 15 to 30 images unless otherwise indicated. For FM4-64 staining, detached leaf sections (approximately 0.25 cm2) were submerged in 20 μM FM4-64 (Molecular Probes) in water for 15 to 45 min. For PI staining, detached leaf sections (approximately 0.25 cm2) were submerged in 0.5% PI solution for 45 to 60 min then washed briefly (10 to 15 min) in water before imaging. Sirofluor staining of leaf sections for callose was conducted with a 0.1 mg mL−1 dissolved in a 1% DMSO solution (Biosupplies). Image data were processed using Zen 2009 Light Edition and Adobe Photoshop CS5. Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis genome initiative or GenBank/EMBL database under accession numbers AT3G50450 (HR1), AT3G50460 (HR2), AT3G50470 (HR3), AT3G50480 (HR4), AY225587 (BoHRa), and AY225588 (BoHRb). The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Schematic gene structures and the location and direction of the T-DNA insertions (arrowheads) in HR1, HR2, and HR3. Supplemental Figure S2. Protein sequence alignment of the RPW8 family. Supplemental Figure S3. Expression of HR1-YFP, HR2-YFP, and HR3-YFP is detectable in N. benthamiana when transiently coexpressed with a viral RNAi suppressor. Supplemental Figure S4. HR3 is not required for RPW8.1 and RPW8.2-mediated resistance. Supplemental Table S1. Information about the DNA constructs used in this study.
