!~ABS~! Glutathione peroxidase‐like enzymes (GPXLs) constitute a family of eight peroxidases in Arabidopsis thaliana. In contrast to the eponymous selenocysteine glutathione peroxidases in mammalian cells that use glutathione as electron donor, GPXLs rely on cysteine instead of selenocysteine for activity and depend on the thioredoxin system for reduction. Although plant GPXLs have been implicated in important agronomic traits such as drought tolerance, photooxidative tolerance and immune responses, there remain major ambiguities regarding their subcellular localization. Because their site of action is a prerequisite for an understanding of their function, we investigated the localization of all eight GPXLs in stable Arabidopsis lines expressing N‐terminal and C‐terminal fusions with redox‐sensitive green fluorescent protein 2 (roGFP2) using confocal microscopy. GPXL1 and GPXL7 were found in plastids, while GPXL2 and GPXL8 are cytosolic nuclear. The N‐terminal target peptide of GPXL6 is sufficient to direct roGFP2 into mitochondria. Interestingly, GPXL3, GPXL4 and GPXL5 all appear to be membrane bound. GPXL3 was found exclusively in the secretory pathway where it is anchored by a single N‐terminal transmembrane domain. GPXL4 and GPXL5 are anchored to the plasma membrane. Presence of an N‐terminal myristoylation motif and genetic disruption of membrane association through targeted mutagenesis point to myristoylation as essential for membrane localization. 
!~RES~! The Arabidopsis genome encodes eight GPXL isoforms, which have been predicted to be localized in different subcellular compartments. Different bioinformatics algorithms, however, lead to different predictions, and, where available, experimental evidence is frequently inconsistent with predictions (Fig. 1). The amino acid alignment suggests the presence of N‐terminal targeting signals for GPXL1, GPXL6 and GPXL7 (Fig. S1). While the sequences of GPXL1 and 7 have been associated with a strong probability of plastid targeting, the situation is more ambiguous for GPXL6. The highest scoring prediction is mitochondria, but some algorithms also predict the plasma membrane, the plastids and the nucleus as putative targets (Fig. 1). GPXL3 contains a short 39 amino acids long N‐terminal extension compared with GPXL2 and GPXL8 (Fig. S1). Most bioinformatics algorithms interpret the first 12 amino acids of this extension as a mitochondrial targeting signal to guide the mature protein to the mitochondrial import machinery (Fig. 1). This, however, contrasts with experimental evidence for the cytosol, the Golgi and plastids (Helm et al. CITATION; Miao et al. CITATION; Nikolovski et al. CITATION). All other GPXLs are predicted to be localized at the plasma membrane or the cytosol, but again, experimental evidence from proteome analyses and protein–protein interaction studies is not always consistent with the predictions (Fig. 1).  [[FIGURE]] To investigate the subcellular targeting of GPXLs, fusion proteins with roGFP2 were generated and initially expressed transiently in tobacco leaves. roGFP2 can be imaged as a conventional GFP, but it has the additional feature of self‐indicating reducing and oxidizing subcellular compartments, which can allow fine‐determination of membrane protein topology (Brach et al. CITATION) (Fig. 3a).  Glutathione peroxidase‐like enzyme 1 has been identified as a plastidic protein more than a decade ago (Kleffmann et al. CITATION). Ambiguity results from proteome studies that have reported GPXL1 to reside at the chloroplast envelope (Ferro et al. CITATION) or on thylakoid membranes (Peltier et al. CITATION). To experimentally resolve the subcellular localization, GPXL1 was C‐terminally tagged with roGFP2. The roGFP2‐tag was exploited as a simple GFP and imaged together with chlorophyll autofluorescence. All images from parenchyma cells revealed co‐localization of GPXL1‐roGFP2 with chlorophyll autofluorescence depicted as a yellow merge colour (Fig. 2e–h). Epidermal pavement cell chloroplasts with low chlorophyll content appear green in the merge image (Fig. 2h). Even distribution of fluorescence suggests localization of the fusion protein in the stroma, rather than to the thylakoids. This conclusion is further supported by the visualization of roGFP2‐labelled stromules protruding from chloroplasts in tobacco leaf epidermal cells (Fig. S2).  [[FIGURE]] Glutathione peroxidase‐like enzyme 7 is also predicted to be targeted to plastids (Fig. 1), but this localization has not been explored experimentally. C‐terminal fusions of GPXL7 with roGFP2 resulted in plastidic localization again with identification of individual epidermal plastids that displayed a strong roGFP2 signal in the background of low chlorophyll signal (Fig. 2i–l).  Glutathione peroxidase‐like enzymes 2 and 8 both lack obvious target peptides (Fig. S1) and were predicted to localize in the cytosol. For experimental validation, both proteins were C‐terminally tagged with roGFP2 and stably expressed in Arabidopsis. Ratiometric analysis of a cytosolic roGFP2 control results in low 405/488 nm fluorescence excitation ratios indicating a reduced roGFP2 sensor false‐coloured in blue (Fig. 3a). A roGFP2 ER lumen control shows high 405/488 nm fluorescence excitation ratios indicating an oxidized roGFP2 false coloured in red (Fig. 3a). Given the pronounced ratio difference resulting in a binary readout, no further quantitative analysis is necessary, although the spatial pattern of fluorescence signal may be used for independent validation. For both, GPXL2 and GPXL8, the C‐terminally fused roGFP2 displayed low fluorescence ratios confirming localization in the cytosol and the nucleus (Fig. 3b). To further exclude the possibility of cryptic C‐terminal targeting signals for peroxisomes, both proteins were also fused to the C‐terminus of roGFP2 and transiently expressed in tobacco leaves. These fusion constructs were also found in the cytosol and the nucleus (Fig. S3).  [[FIGURE]] The protein sequence of GPXL6 indicates an N‐terminal 65 amino acid stretch that is interpreted as a mitochondrial targeting signal by most bioinformatics algorithms (Fig. S1 and Fig. 1). GPXL6, N‐terminal and C‐terminal fusions with roGFP2 were initially expressed in tobacco leaves. While the C‐terminal fusion was found in the cytosol and the nucleoplasm, the N‐terminal fusion preferentially labelled the ER network with the ring‐like appearance of the nuclear envelope as a characteristic structure (Fig. S4a). The roGFP2 tag, however, remained reduced indicating that the fusion protein decorated the cytosolic face of the endomembranes. In contrast to the complete absence of mitochondrial targeting in tobacco, stable expression of GPXL6‐roGFP2 in Arabidopsis resulted in partial targeting to the mitochondrial matrix as visualized through co‐localization of roGFP2 with the mitochondrial marker TMRM (Fig. 4a). In addition, GPXL6‐roGFP2 was found in the cytosol and the nucleus (Fig. 4b) and occasionally, in highly expressing lines again on the cytosolic face of the ER membrane (Fig. S4b). To further test for the function of the putative targeting signal, the first 65 amino acids were fused to the N‐terminus of roGFP2. Stable expression of GPXL61–65‐roGFP2 in Arabidopsis resulted in clear mitochondrial localization, as indicated by strict co‐localization with the TMRM signal (Fig. 4c).  [[FIGURE]] To determine the subcellular localization of GPXL4 and GPXL5, roGFP2 was fused to the C‐terminus of both proteins. While transient expression of these proteins in tobacco resulted in cytosolic and nuclear localization (Fig. S5a,b), stable expression in Arabidopsis consistently resulted in exclusive localization of the fusion proteins to the plasma membrane (Fig. 5a,b). The C‐terminally fused roGFP2 remained reduced in all cases indicating localization on the cytosolic face of the membrane. Membrane localization of both constructs was confirmed through co‐localization with the membrane marker FM4‐64 (Fig. 5c,d). The N‐termini of both GPXL4 and GPXL5 resemble the classical myristoylation motif MGxxxSxx (Johnson et al. CITATION; Resh CITATION) (Fig. S1). Based on 166 GPXL sequences from land plants, Margis et al. generated a phylogenetic tree and found five distinct clades based on four putative gene duplications during early land plant evolution. AtGPXL4 and 5 were generated by an additional gene duplication during angiosperm evolution and both belong to the same cluster that was annotated as cytosolic (Margis et al. CITATION). More detailed sequence analysis of the GPXL4/5 clade highlighted that all 28 representatives of this clade contained the N‐terminal myristoylation motif (Fig. S6). As a result, Gly may get myristoylated during translation after cleavage of the N‐terminal Met enabling anchoring to the plasma membrane. To test the hypothesis of the N‐terminus playing a role in plasma membrane localization, we first masked the putative myristoylaton site by fusing roGFP2 to the N‐termini of GPXL4 and GPXL5, respectively. In tobacco, these constructs strictly labelled endomembranes including the nuclear envelope with a reduced roGFP2 (Fig. S5c,d). When roGFP2‐GPXL4 and roGFP2‐GPXL5 were stably transformed into Arabidopsis, expression of the fusion proteins was very low, but still, they appeared predominantly on endomembranes including the nuclear envelope with roGFP2 facing the cytosol indicated by the blue/greenish false colour of the ratio images (Fig. S7). To further assess the role for myristoylation, G2A mutant variants of GPXL4 and GPXL5 were generated and fused with C‐terminal roGFP2. In Arabidopsis, both of these fusion proteins were not found at the plasma membrane anymore. Instead, they remained soluble in the cytosol and the nucleus (Fig. 6).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Expression of GPXL3 with roGFP2 fused to its C‐terminus in tobacco leaves resulted in the observation of punctate structures. Despite prediction of GPXL3 as a mitochondrial protein (Fig. 1), no co‐localization with TMRM could be found. To minimize the risk of possible mistargeting resulting from heterologous expression, both N‐terminal and C‐terminal fusion proteins of GPXL3 with roGFP2 were stably expressed in Arabidopsis. As in tobacco leaves, expression of GPXL3‐roGFP2 in Arabidopsis resulted in a punctate labelling pattern, but surprisingly, ratiometric analysis of the roGFP2 tag indicated oxidizing conditions in the respective compartment (Fig. 7a top row, red false colour). Expression of roGFP2‐GPXL3 resulted in labelling of endomembranes including the nuclear envelope. In this case, however, the roGFP2 tag appeared to be largely reduced (Fig. 7a bottom row, blue false colour). Taken together, the ratiometric analysis of N‐terminal and C‐terminal fusions of GPXL3 with roGFP2 strongly suggests that GPXL3 is targeted to the ER and/or the Golgi and that the protein contains a transmembrane domain (TMD), which anchors the protein to the membrane. Localization of GPXL3 fusion proteins in the Golgi apparatus was confirmed by co‐localization with the Golgi marker mannosidase I‐red fluorescent protein (Fig. S8). Indeed, the protein sequence of GPXL3 contains an N‐terminal extension of 39 amino acids that includes a highly hydrophobic domain between amino acid 19 and 32. Together with few neighbouring amino acids, this domain may constitute a TMD that anchors GPXL3 to the ER membrane (Fig. 7b). A single‐spanning TMD would be consistent with the binary response of N‐terminally fused roGFP2 being reduced and C‐terminally fused roGFP2 being oxidized (Fig. 7c). The first 34 amino acids of GPXL3 were found to be sufficient to target roGFP2 to the secretory pathway where it labelled the ER and the Golgi (Fig. 8a). Deletion of the first 34 amino acids from GPXL3 resulted in a soluble protein localized in the cytosol and the nucleus (Fig. 8b).  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh ecotype Col‐0 seeds were germinated on a soil mixture (Floragard, www.floragard.de) supplemented with perlite and quartz sand in a ratio of 10:1:1. Plants were kept in a controlled growth chamber under long day condition with a diurnal cycle of 16 h light at 19 °C and 8 h dark at 17 °C. Humidity of the growth chamber was around 40%, and the light intensity was 100–120 μE m−2 s−1. Tobacco plants (Nicotiana benthamiana Domin) were grown in a soil mixture at 22 °C (night/day) under a 16 h photoperiod with a light intensity of 120 μE m−2 s−1. To grow plants under axenic conditions on plates, seeds were surface sterilized with 70% (v/v) ethanol and placed on nutrient medium [5 mm KNO3, 2.5 mm KH2PO4, 2 mm MgSO4, 2 mm Ca(NO3)2, 50 μm Fe‐EDTA, 0.1% (v/v) micronutrient mix (70 mm H3BO4, 14 mm MnCl2, 0.5 mm CuSO4, 1 mm ZnSO4, 0.2 mm NaMoO4, 10 mm NaCl and 0.01 mm CoCl2), 0.8% (w/v) agar and pH 5.8] and antibiotics for selection when required.  To obtain C‐terminal and N‐terminal fusions of full‐length GPXLs with roGFP2, roGFP2 was cloned in frame with GPXLs by Gateway Cloning (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) using the vector pSS01 for C‐terminal fusion and the vector pCM01 for N‐terminal fusion (Brach et al. CITATION). On both T‐DNAs, expression of the fusion constructs is driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. The primers for C‐terminal and N‐terminal fusions were designated GPXLx_F for the forward primer and GPXLx_C and N for the reverse primers for C‐terminal and N‐terminal roGFP2 fusions, respectively (Table S1). Fusion of the truncated constructs of GPXL3, GPXL4, GPXL5 and GPXL6 to the N‐terminus of roGFP2 was achieved through assembly PCR using gene specific primers (Table S1). In the first round, the nucleotide sequence of GPXL31–34 was amplified using primers P6 and P23, GPXL3Δ1–34 using P27 and P26, GPXL4G2A using P28 and P29, GPXL5G2A using P31 and P32 and GPXL61–65 using P15 and P34. The second primer of each pair overlaps with roGFP2. roGFP2 was amplified in the second round using primers P24 and P36 for GPXL31–34, P25 and P37 for GPXL3Δ1–34, P30 and P36 for GPXL4G2A, P33 and P36 for GPXL5G2A and P35 and P36 for GPXL61–65. The resulting PCR products were mixed 1:1 and amplified using primers P6 and P36 for GPXL31–34, P27 and P37 for GPXL3Δ1–34, P28 and P36 for GPXL4 G2A, P31 and P36 for GPXL5G2A and P15 and P36 for GPXL61–65. The resulting fragments were purified and mixed with pDONR201 for the BP reaction and recombined in the LR reaction with the destination vectors pB7WG2 or pK7WG2 (Karimi et al. CITATION).  Transformation of tobacco leaf epidermal cells was performed as described previously (Sparkes et al. CITATION) using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1 (Lazo et al. CITATION) containing binary vectors with DNA‐fragments coding for roGFP2 fusion proteins. Transfected cells were imaged by confocal laser scanning microscopy 2–4 days after inoculation. Stable transformation of Arabidopsis was achieved by the floral dip method (Clough & Bent CITATION). After electroporation of binary vectors into AGL1, the bacteria were incubated in 30 mL selective lysogeny broth medium (50 μg mL−1 rifampicin, 100 μg mL−1 ampicillin, 100 μg mL−1 spectinomycin and 50 μg mL−1 kanamycin) for 24 h on a shaker at 28 °C and 220 rpm as preculture. Subsequently, 300 mL of selective lysogeny broth medium was inoculated with this preculture and incubated for a further 24 h under the same conditions. Seeds were sterilized and placed on nutrient medium solidified with 0.8% (w/v) micro agar. The T1 generation was screened for transformants making use of the roGFP2 fluorescence under a Leica M165FC stereomicroscope equipped with a Leica DCF425C camera for image recording (Leica Microsystems, Wetzlar, Germany). A GFP filter of 470 ± 40 nm excitation and emission at 525 ± 50 nm was used. Arabidopsis plants transformed with constructs harbouring the Bar gene mediating Basta® resistance were grown on soil under long‐day conditions. Plants in two‐leaf stage were sprayed with a 240 mg L−1 glufosinate ammonium solution (Basta; Bayer Crop Science). The treatment was repeated 1 week later. Resistance became obvious 5 days after Basta application; non‐resistant plants died shortly afterwards.  Ratiometric imaging of transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing roGFP2 constructs was performed on a confocal laser scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM 780, attached to an Axio Observer.Z1; Carl Zeiss Microscopy, Jena, Germany). Images were collected with a 40× (C‐Apochromat 40×/1.2 W Korr) or a 63× lens (Plan‐Apochromat 63×/1.40 Oil DIC). roGFP2 was excited at 405 and 488 nm. Fluorescence emission was collected from 505 to 530 nm, and intensities from four scans were averaged. For co‐localization of roGFP2 fusion proteins in mitochondria, seedlings were incubated with 0.5 μm tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester (TMRM) for at least 15 min at RT. TMRM staining was recorded with excitation at 543 nm and emission recorded from 560 to 615 nm. In case of GFP localization at the plasma membrane, seedlings were incubated with 5 μm FM4‐64 for 2 min on ice. FM4‐64 was excited at 488 nm, while emission was detected between 620 and 680 nm in root tissues. Chlorophyll autofluorescence was excited with 488 nm and collected from 647 to 745 nm.  Ratiometric analysis was performed using a custom‐written MATLAB script (Fricker CITATION). The ratio analysis was performed on a pixel‐by‐pixel basis as 405/488 ratio following averaging in (x,y) using a 3 × 3 kernel, correction of the 405 nm channel for autofluorescence bleed through into the 488 nm channel and subtraction of background signals for each channel. 
