!~ABS~! Tetrapyrrole biosynthesis is one of the most essential metabolic pathways in almost all organisms. Coproporphyrinogen III oxidase (CPO) catalyzes the conversion of coproporphyrinogen III into protoporphyrinogen IX in this pathway. Here, we report that mutation in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CPO-coding gene At5g63290 (AtHEMN1) adversely affects silique length, ovule number, and seed set. Athemn1 mutant alleles were transmitted via both male and female gametes, but homozygous mutants were never recovered. Plants carrying Athemn1 mutant alleles showed defects in gametophyte development, including nonviable pollen and embryo sacs with unfused polar nuclei. Improper differentiation of the central cell led to defects in endosperm development. Consequently, embryo development was arrested at the globular stage. The mutant phenotype was completely rescued by transgenic expression of AtHEMN1. Promoter and transcript analyses indicated that AtHEMN1 is expressed mainly in floral tissues and developing seeds. AtHEMN1-green fluorescent protein fusion protein was found targeted to mitochondria. Loss of AtHEMN1 function increased coproporphyrinogen III level and reduced protoporphyrinogen IX level, suggesting the impairment of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. Blockage of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis in the AtHEMN1 mutant led to increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation in anthers and embryo sacs, as evidenced by nitroblue tetrazolium staining. Our results suggest that the accumulated ROS disrupts mitochondrial function by altering their membrane polarity in floral tissues. This study highlights the role of mitochondrial ROS homeostasis in gametophyte and seed development and sheds new light on tetrapyrrole/heme biosynthesis in plant mitochondria.
!~RES~! While screening in-house-developed T-DNA insertion mutant lines of Arabidopsis, a mutant with bushy habit and short siliques was identified (Fig. 2A). The mutant had a significantly shorter silique (Fig. 2B) that contained fewer ovules (34 ± 2 versus 46 in the wild type). This mutant, initially named GFP-868, had a low frequency of seed set (Fig. 2D). The mutant plants showed 47.5% (327/688) seed sterility that included 18.8% (130/688) aborted seeds and 28.6% (197/688) aborted ovules compared with the wild-type siliques (Fig. 2C), which had only 1.7% (16/915) aborted seeds and 1% (9/915) aborted ovules (Table I). [[FIGURE]] The genome walking approach was used to localize the T-DNA insertion in the mutant (Supplemental Fig. S1A), which identified the T-DNA insertion in the 3′ untranslated region (UTR) of At5g63290 (Supplemental Fig. S1, B and C) that encodes CPO. T-DNA insertion in the GFP-868 mutant is diagrammatically represented in Figure 2G, and the mutant is hereafter referred to as the Athemn1-1 mutant. Another T-DNA mutant line (SALK_100305) having T-DNA insertion in the first exon of AtHEMN1 (at 169 bp downstream of the translation initiation codon ATG) was obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center and is referred to here as Athemn1-2. This mutant also showed high degrees of ovule abortion and seed sterility (Table I; Fig. 2E). The locations of the T-DNA insertion and position of primers used for genotyping and genome walking are shown in Supplemental Figure S1D. The kanamycin-positive progeny of the Athemn1-1 and Athemn1-2 mutant plants were analyzed by PCR to identify and isolate homozygous mutant plants (Supplemental Fig. S2). The PCR results confirmed that both the mutant lines are heterozygous for T-DNA insertion. Additional PCR screening of the progeny also failed to identify homozygous mutant individuals. This strongly suggested the nonviability of one of the gametophytes or homozygous mutant embryos/seeds. As we could not recover any homozygous Athemn1 plants, further characterization of the mutant was carried out with the heterozygous plants only. The occurrence of Athemn1 mutant plants in progeny of the mutant but absence of homozygous mutant plants indicated that the mutant allele is transmitted via at least one of the gametes. To determine the same, reciprocal crosses were made between wild-type and Athemn1 mutant plants. When selfed progeny of the mutant were tested for kanamycin reaction, kanamycin-resistant (KanR) and kanamycin-susceptible (KanS) plants were obtained in a 0.87:1 ratio. This significantly deviated from the expected 2:1 ratio assuming the lethality of homozygous mutant progeny. When the mutant plant was used as female and pollinated with wild-type pollen, the F1 progeny showed a KanR:KanS ratio of 0.42:1, whereas in the reciprocal cross the ratio was 0.28:1 (Table II). These results deviated significantly from the expected 0:1 KanR:KanS ratio expected assuming that the Athemn1 mutation is lethal to either of the gametes and confirmed that the mutant allele is transmitted via both male and female gametes. Male transmission via pollen was significantly lower (28.4%) than that from the female side (42.4%; Table II). The transmission frequency of the mutant allele observed in the selfed progeny deviated significantly from the 0.71:1 KanR:KanS ratio calculated based on male and female transmission frequencies observed in backcross progeny. The absence of homozygous mutants in selfed progeny clearly indicated that AtHEMN1 function is essential after fertilization for normal seed development, which is ensured by the wild-type allele in crosses between the mutant and the wild type. A complementation study was undertaken to confirm that the observed mutant phenotype is indeed due to the Athemn1 mutation. For this, Athemn1 mutant plants were transformed with the binary plasmid containing the p35S::AtHEMN1-GFP gene cassette and the hygromycin selection marker gene (Supplemental Fig. S3A). T1 progeny were selected on hygromycin and were further tested by PCR for the presence of the Athemn1-1 mutant allele in these plants. A 1.5-kb PCR product confirmed the presence of the mutant allele Athemn1-1 in hygromycin-positive plants (Supplemental Fig. S3B). When these plants were tested for the expression of the AtHEMN1-GFP transgene by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR, the expected 1.8-kb amplicon was detected in inflorescence and silique but no amplicon was found in wild-type plants. All five such complemented plants examined showed normal siliques (Fig. 2, B and C) and nearly full seed set (Table II) comparable with the wild type. These results confirmed that the Athemn1 mutation is the cause of the observed mutant phenotype. Genetic analysis showed that the Athemn1-1 mutant allele is transmitted at a low frequency from the male side. Therefore, we made a detailed examination of pollen development to identify the nature of the defect in pollen development. Upon Alexander’s staining, 51.4% (n = 1,519) and 49.04% (n = 1,309) pollen grains from Athemn1-1 and Athemn1-2 plants, respectively, did not take any stain and were inferred to be nonviable (Fig. 3, B and C; Table III). On the other hand, pollen of wild-type plants (Fig. 3A) and AtHEMN1-GFP-overexpressing complemented plants (Fig. 3D) showed over 95% viable pollen. DIC microscopic analysis revealed that, compared with the wild type (Fig. 3E), most of the pollen in the mutant plants was collapsed and abnormal in shape (Fig. 3, F and G), whereas pollen of the complemented plants (Fig. 3H) was normal. In mutant plants, morphological defects were observed from pollen development stage 8 (Supplemental Fig. S4). At stage 7, the mutants showed well-developed tapetal layer and normal tetrad similar to wild-type plants (Supplemental Fig. S4, A, F, and K), but at stage 8, the tetrads failed to release the microspores in the mutant (Supplemental Fig. S4, G and L). Even those released from the tetrads failed to form an exine wall (Supplemental Fig. S4, H and M). As a result, collapsed pollen was observed in mature anthers of the mutant plants (Supplemental Fig. S4, I, J, N, and O). [[FIGURE]] To find the exact defects in female gametophyte development, the tissue-cleared ovules from Athemn1-1 and Athemn1-2 mutants were examined with a DIC microscope. At anthesis, almost all ovules in the wild type contained one central cell nucleus, one egg cell nucleus, and two synergid cell nuclei (Fig. 4A). In both the Athemn1 mutant flowers at this stage, 47.6% to 58.1% (40/84 in Athemn1-1 and 68/117 in Athemn1-2) of ovules displayed a normal wild-type-like phenotype, whereas 40.04% to 38.46% (34/84 in Athemn1-1 and 45/117 in Athemn1-2) of ovules showed a pair of unfused polar nuclei (Fig. 4, B and C; Table IV). Furthermore, 12% (10/84) and 3.4% (4/117) of Athemn1-1 and Athemn1-2 ovules, respectively, showed arrest at the FG1, FG2, or FG4 stage of female gametophyte development (Table IV). In transgene-complemented mutant plants, 94.39% (101/107) of ovules appeared normal (Fig. 4D). These data indicated that the Athemn1 mutation mainly impairs the fusion of the polar nuclei to form the central cell nucleus of the embryo sac. In contrast to the wild type, the Athemn1 embryo sac at stage FG7/8 had comparatively smaller egg cells and persistent antipodal cells (Fig. 4, B and C). [[FIGURE]] To define the stage and nature of seed abortion in the mutant, whole mounts of cleared ovules sampled at different times after fertilization were examined with a DIC microscope. No differences were discernible at the zygote stage of development between the wild type and the mutant. The defects in seed development became evident at the early globular stage (Fig. 4, E–G). A number of prominent doughnut-shaped nuclei without any cellularization and with defective embryos were observed in the center of the embryo sac of mutant ovules (Fig. 4F). Some of the ovules showed a lack of proper endosperm proliferation where developing embryos were arrested at the globular stage (Fig. 4G). In the Athem1-1 mutant, about 28% (32/115) of the aborting seeds had embryos arrested at the globular stage (Fig. 4H), whereas in 58% (67/115) of aborting seeds, embryo development proceeded beyond the globular stage and about 31% reached the torpedo or cotyledon stage (Table V). Values in parentheses are total ovules present in the silique. To gain further understanding of the defects in female gametophyte development, the expression of embryo sac cell-specific molecular markers was analyzed in the mutant background. The mutant line Athemn1-1 was crossed separately with different cell-specific marker lines, namely ET884 (synergid cell specific), ET1119 (egg cell specific), and DD65:GFP (central cell specific). The F1 plants carrying the Athemn1-1 mutant allele were identified, and the ovules were examined for GUS or GFP expression (Fig. 5). Since the gynoecium of the heterozygous mutant plant (+/Athemn1-1) contains both normal and defective ovules, we tested the expression of marker genes in defective ovules. GUS expression (conferred by the marker ET884) was observed in synergids of 42.05% (n = 140) of ovules (Fig. 5, A and D). Similarly, the marker ET1119 showed GUS expression in egg cells of 40.3% (n = 176) of ovules (Fig. 5, B and E). These results suggest that both egg cells and synergid cells are properly specified in ovules carrying the Athemn1-1 mutant allele. Expression of the marker DD65:GFP was checked in wild-type and Athemn1-1 ovules. While wild-type ovules with fused polar nuclei showed GFP expression restricted to the central cell of the embryo sac (Fig. 5C), those with unfused polar nuclei displayed green fluorescence in the two polar nuclei of the embryo sacs (Fig. 5F). Thus, the polar nuclei appear to have acquired central cell specification but failed to form a diploid central cell nucleus due to the Athemn1-1 mutation. [[FIGURE]] The AtHEMN1 gene product is expected to play a role in the porphyrin biosynthetic pathway, which is a bifurcated pathway of chlorophyll biosynthesis (Fig. 1). Available information shows that any defect affecting the synthesis of porphyrins would result in the accumulation of ROS (CITATION). To investigate whether disruption of the AtHEMN1 gene leads to ROS accumulation, nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) staining of anthers and ovules of wild-type and Athemn1-1 mutant plants was tested. No NBT staining was found in mature anthers and pollen of the wild type (Fig. 6A), whereas the mutant anthers showed strong NBT staining of pollen grains (Fig. 6, B and C). In ovules, no NBT staining was detected in the mutant or the wild-type until the FG5 stage. However, at the FG6-7 stage, dark NBT staining was detected in Athemn1-1 ovules around the unfused polar nuclei and in the micropylar region (Fig. 6, E and F), whereas in the wild type, faint staining was observed in the micropylar region only (Fig. 6D). Some of the ovules of Athemn1-1 that were collapsed (∼32%) showed staining in the entire embryo sac (Supplemental Fig. S5). Thus, NBT staining showed that disruption of AtHEMN1 function leads to high ROS production in developing gametophytes. [[FIGURE]] As per TAIR annotation, At5g63290 has two exons (824 and 631 bp) and a 91-bp intron and is capable of encoding a 484-amino acid polypeptide. Furthermore, its transcript has a 27-bp 5′ UTR and a 384-bp 3′ UTR. The polypeptide sequence possesses a mitochondrial targeting signal, MLKTTISPIFSSFTGKPKCSSKLFFRAFSKVVLQDTPPSARRN, at the N-terminal end (Supplemental Fig. S6). A phylogenetic tree of CPO proteins prepared from different organisms like bacteria, cyanobacteria, mammals, and plants, including Arabidopsis, is shown in Supplemental Figure S7 and Supplemental Table S1. On the basis of homology, CPO proteins were found to be conserved across different kingdoms. To determine the similarity of AtHEMN1 with the two available analogs of CPOs (i.e. hemF and hemN), amino acid sequences were compared using homology search. The AtHEMN1 protein showed 44% similarity with plastid-localized hemF CPO and 91% similarity with mitochondria-localized hemN CPO (Fig. 7A; Supplemental Table S2). It also has three Elongator protein (Elp) domains and a C-terminal hemN domain (Fig. 7B). The Elp domain shares significant sequence homology with the radical S-adenosyl-Met superfamily. Members of this family of bacterial proteins contain an FeS cluster and use S-adenosyl-Met to catalyze a variety of radical reactions (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] Tetrapyrrole biosynthesis in plants is known to occur in the plastids. However, AtHEMN1 contains a mitochondrial targeting signal. Therefore, the cellular localization of AtHEMN1 was tested in Athemn1-1 mutant plants complemented with the 35S::AtHEMN1-GFP gene construct. To localize the mitochondria, tissue was stained with MitoSOX Red, a mitochondrial superoxide indicator that selectively moves into mitochondria, becomes oxidized, and turns fluorescent (CITATION). Stained root tip tissues were examined for GFP and MitoSOX Red fluorescence. A strong overlap was observed between AtHEMN1/GFP and MitoSOX Red signals (Fig. 6, G–J). A similar type of colocalization was observed in the mitochondrial cloud around the central cell of the mature embryo sac (Fig. 6, K–N). These results confirmed the targeting of AtHEMN1 to mitochondria. Documentation of the unfused polar nuclei phenotype by DIC and strong NBT staining around these unfused polar nuclei in the mutant clearly establish the critical role of AtHEMN1 function for polar cell fusion during gametophyte development. These results also confirmed that the Athemn1 mutation has disturbed ROS homeostasis in both anthers and ovules and led to defects in pollen and embryo sac development. Since AtHEMN1 encodes an enzyme involved in tetrapyrrole biosynthesis, it is likely that this accumulation of ROS is a consequence of disruption in the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis in the mitochondria, which ultimately affects the functionality of these mitochondria around the central cell in this mutant. Interestingly, the fiona and oiwa mutants with defects in polar nuclei fusion also display altered mitochondrial ultrastructure in the central cell (CITATION; CITATION). To verify the status of mitochondrial function within the embryo sac, we used JC-1 dye to monitor the mitochondrial membrane potential. JC-1 is a lipophilic dye that selectively enters into mitochondria and reversibly changes color from green to red as the membrane potential increases (CITATION). In normal cells showing high mitochondrial membrane potential, JC-1 spontaneously forms complexes giving intense red fluorescence. On the other hand, in cells having mitochondria with low membrane potential, the dye remains in the monomeric form and exhibits green fluorescence only (CITATION; CITATION). Ovules of the Athemn1-1 mutant and wild-type plants were stained with JC-1 dye and examined for its fluorescence to assess the functionality of the mitochondria within the embryo sac. Embryo sacs of wild-type plants showed comparatively more red fluorescence than green (Fig. 8, A and B), whereas in mutant embryo sacs, green fluorescence was predominant over red (Fig. 8, C and D). The ratio of red to green fluorescence in wild-type embryo sacs was about 1.3 (Fig. 8E), whereas it was significantly lower (i.e. 0.58) in the Athemn1-1 mutant. These results confirmed that the embryo sacs of Athemn1 mutants have dysfunctional mitochondria around the central cell because of the accumulated ROS, which induces the damage to the organelle. [[FIGURE]] The Arabidopsis eFP browser database (http://www.bar.utoronto.ca/efp/cgi-bin/efpWeb.cgi) shows that AtHEMN1 is expressed in all plant parts, with the highest expression in dry and imbibed seeds, whereas the GENVESTIGATOR (CITATION) expression pattern shows the highest expression of AtHEMN1 in pollen and seed. RT-PCR expression analysis confirmed the presence of AtHEMN1 transcripts in stems, leaves, inflorescences, and siliques, whereas no transcripts were detected in roots and seedlings of wild-type plants (Fig. 9A). However, AtHEMN1 transcript levels were reduced drastically in the mutant plants (Fig. 9B). Since mutant plants are heterozygous, these results indicate that haploinsufficiency of AtHEMN1 leads to the observed mutant phenotype. [[FIGURE]] To determine the temporal and spatial expression patterns of the AtHEMN1 gene, a 1.2-kb fragment upstream of the AtHEMN1 translation start site was PCR amplified and cloned upstream of the reporter gene uidA in PORE-R2 vector and used to transform wild-type Arabidopsis plants. GUS expression was examined in five independent transgenic lines. Weak GUS expression was observed in stems, leaves (trichomes), inflorescences, and developing seeds (Supplemental Fig. S8). GUS activity was detected specifically in anthers. In anthers, GUS expression was found in the tapetum, developing microspores (Fig. 9C), and mature pollen. GUS activity also was found in the central cell region of the mature embryo sacs of the ovules and in the endosperm of the developing seeds (Fig. 9, D and E). Thus, based on in silico data of transcript abundance in different tissues and promoter activity determined using GUS expression, we infer that the AtHEMN1 gene is expressed primarily in anther, embryo sac, and endosperm during seed maturation. To determine whether the Athemn1 mutation causes disturbance in the tetrapyrrole pathway, we assessed the expression levels of different genes of the pathway, namely coproporphyrinogen oxidase (AtHEMN1 [At5g63290] and LIN2 [At1g03475]), protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase (PPO1 [At5g14220] and PPO2 [At4g01690]), ferrochelatase (FC1 [At5g26030] and FC2 [At2g30390]), and Mg-chelatase (CHL-I1 [At4g18490] and CHL-I2 [At5g45930]). Quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR analysis using RNA samples from the inflorescence revealed 17-fold down-regulation of AtHEMN1 transcripts in the mutant (Fig. 10A). The plastidial CPO gene (LIN2) also showed 3.7-fold down-regulation. Likewise, FC1, FC2, and CHL-I2 also showed 2- to 3-fold down-regulation in the Athemn1-1 mutant. In contrast, the expression of PPO1, PPO2, and CHL-I1 in the mutant was comparable to that in the wild type. These results show that the Athemn1 mutation affects the expression of other downstream genes of the pathway. To further understand the consequences of these gene expression changes on the accumulation of products of the pathway, relative levels of coproporphyrin and protoporphyrin were estimated in the mutant and wild-type plants through spectrophotometry (Supplemental Fig. S9). A 4-fold increase in coproporphyrin level was found in ovules of Athemn1-1 mutant plants compared with the wild type (Fig. 10B), whereas the protoporphyrin level was reduced by 3-fold (Fig. 10C). Thus, the AtHEMN1 mutation disrupted the tetrapyrrole/heme biosynthesis pathway and caused the accumulation of intermediates. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The development and screening of the T-DNA insertion population of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Columbia) has been described (CITATION). Briefly, the T-DNA promoter trap lines were generated by floral dip transformation (CITATION) of Arabidopsis with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain GV3101 harboring a promoter trap vector carrying a promoterless GFP gene at the right border of the T-DNA. T1 seeds were screened for T-DNA insertion by selection on a medium containing kanamycin (50 mg L−1). The green seedlings were transferred to pots and allowed to grow under controlled conditions (20°C ± 1°C, 60% relative humidity, 16 h of light/8 h of dark, under fluorescent illumination of 100 μmol m−2 s−1), and T2 seeds were collected. Each KanR T1 plant was considered as an independent trap. T2 plants of each line were examined for reporter gene expression or seed sterility. One of the lines showing seed sterility (designated as GFP-868) was identified and analyzed in this study. The T-DNA insertion site was determined through the genome walking approach (CITATION; CITATION). Briefly, genome walking libraries were constructed by digesting DNA with DraI, EcoRV, PvuII, or StuI restriction enzyme followed by adapter ligation. PCR amplification was carried out according to the manufacturer’s instructions (Clontech). Primary PCR product (Supplemental Fig. S1A) was diluted (1:250) and used as a template for nested PCR amplification using a nested adapter primer (AP2) and a nested GFP gene-specific primer (NGWGS; Supplemental Table S3). Resolved nested PCR product (Supplemental Fig. S1B) was eluted using the GFX PCR DNA Gel Band Purification kit (GE Healthcare), cloned into pGEM-T Easy vector (Promega), and sequenced. The sequence retrieved after removal of the vector backbone was BLAST searched against the Arabidopsis genome database (TAIR; www.arabidopsis.org) to identify the T-DNA insertion site. T-DNA insertion in the GFP-868 mutant is diagrammatically represented in Supplemental Figure S1D. The insertion was further confirmed by PCR amplification with the primer pairs P1-P2 and P1-P3. Amplification of the expected size fragments (i.e. 2.5 and 1.8 kb, respectively) confirmed the location of the T-DNA in At5g63290 (Supplemental Fig. S1C). Similarly, location of the T-DNA insertion in the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center line SALK_100305 was confirmed using the primer pairs P4-P5 and P1-P6 targeting T-DNA and T-DNA flanking region-specific primers (Supplemental Fig. S1D). For segregation analysis of Athemn1 mutations, T1 plants were allowed to self-pollinate and the seeds were collected. T2 seeds were germinated on Murashige and Skoog agar (MSA) medium (CITATION) containing 50 mg L−1 kanamycin. The number of KanR and KanS plants was scored. For transmission studies, reciprocal crosses were made between heterozygous mutant plants and wild-type plants. The seeds from the crosses were collected, and progeny were tested for kanamycin sensitivity on MSA plates. Egg cell-specific marker ET1119 and synergid cell-specific marker ET884 lines were obtained from Ueli Grossniklaus’s laboratory and analyzed according to CITATION. The central cell-specific marker DD65:GFP was obtained from G. Pagnussat’s laboratory and analyzed according to CITATION and CITATION. These marker lines were individually crossed with the Athemn1-1 mutant lines, and F1 plants carrying the Athemn1-1 mutant allele and the GFP/GUS marker gene were identified through PCR. The gametophytes of such F1 plants were analyzed for marker gene expression. Total RNA from different parts of both mutant and wild-type plants was isolated using the Total RNA Extraction kit (Real Genomics). Total RNA was quantified with a Nanodrop spectrophotometer (ND-1000; Thermo Scientific) and treated with DNase (Invitrogen). SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) with oligo(dT) primer was used for first-strand cDNA synthesis followed by the amplification of double-stranded cDNA with gene-specific forward and reverse primers. The constitutively expressed GAPC gene was used as the normalization control. Primer sequences used for the amplification of different DNA sequences are given in Supplemental Table S3. The inflorescences were collected and fixed in ethanol:acetic acid (9:1) for 24 h, dehydrated in an ethanol series (50% [v/v], 70% [v/v], and 90% [v/v]), followed by dissection of the ovary and anthers in Hoyer’s solution (CITATION) using a stereo zoom microscope (SMZ1500; Nikon), then mounted on a glass slide for 2 h under a cover slip and observed after 2 h using DIC optics. Pollen viability was examined using Alexander’s staining (CITATION). After staining, the number of viable and nonviable pollen grains was counted. For histological studies, the inflorescence was fixed in 3.7% (v/v) formaldehyde, 5% (v/v) acetic acid, and 50% (v/v) ethanol, dehydrated in an ethanol series, infiltrated, and embedded in paraffin wax. Tissues were sectioned (5–10 µm thickness) with a microtome (Shadon Finnse) and observed after staining with 0.05% (w/v) Toluidine Blue using a microscope (AXIO imager.M1; Carl Zeiss) with bright-field illumination. The anther development stages were determined according to CITATION. GUS staining was performed as described by CITATION. The GUS-stained samples were rinsed three times with 70% (v/v) ethanol, cleared in Hoyer’s solution, and observed with a microscope (AXIO imager.M1; Carl Zeiss). NBT staining was performed as described by CITATION to detect in situ ROS. The inflorescence was vacuum infiltrated in 10 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.8) containing 10 mm NaN3 and 0.1% (w/v) NBT stain (SRL Diagnostics) twice for 5 min each and incubated in complete darkness for 30 min at 37°C. After that, the anthers and ovules were dissected using a microscope (SMZ1500; Nikon) in Hoyer’s solution and left overnight for tissue clearance. NBT-stained anthers and ovules were examined with a microscope (AXIO imager.M1; Carl Zeiss), and images were taken. Full-length cDNA of the AtHEMN1 gene (1,455 bp) was amplified using gene-specific primers P1 and P6 (Supplemental Table S3; Supplemental Fig. S1D) with additional sequences for BglII and SpeI restriction sites, respectively, at the 5′ end. The amplified product was cloned into pGEM-T Easy vector and subcloned into the binary vector pCAMBIA1302 between BglII and SpeI sites upstream of the GFP reporter gene to get the AtHEMN1-GFP fusion transcript. The pCAMBIA1302 construct with the 35S:AtHEMN1-GFP gene cassette containing hygromycin as a selectable marker (Supplemental Fig. S3) was introduced into Athemn1-1 mutant plants, and transgenic plants were selected on MSA medium supplemented with hygromycin (20 mg mL−1). Out of 10 independent transformants carrying p35S::AtHEMN1-GFP, two lines were taken for further phenotypic analysis. All these transformants were confirmed for the presence of the AtHEMN1-GFP gene (Supplemental Fig. S3B) and transcripts (Supplemental Fig. S3C) using appropriate primers. A 1.2-kb fragment upstream of the start codon of the AtHEMN1 gene was PCR amplified with the primers P11 and P12 (Supplemental Table S3) having SacII and NotI restriction sites at the 5′ end, respectively, using Phusion high-fidelity DNA polymerase (Finnzymes). The amplified product was cloned into pGEM-T Easy vector and subcloned into the binary vector pORE R2 (CITATION) between SacII and NotI sites upstream of the uidA reporter gene. The recombinant binary vector was mobilized into A. tumefaciens strain GV 3101 and used to transform Arabidopsis plants. T2 plants were examined to localize GUS expression in vegetative and floral parts. For colocalization analysis, root tips from 7-d-old seedlings of complemented plants (T3 generation) were dissected in 5 µm MitoSOX Red (from a stock of 5 mm diluted 1,000 times in 20 mm HEPES buffer, pH 7.2) on a microscope slide and incubated for 30 min at 37°C in the dark. The root tips were washed with HEPES buffer (20 mm), pH 7.2, and immediately examined using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (750 Meta; Zeiss) with excitation/emission at 514/580 nm (CITATION). Ovules were dissected from pistils in 5 µm MitoSOX Red on a microscope slide using a dissecting microscope and allowed to incubate for 30 min at room temperature (CITATION). Ovules were then washed with HEPES buffer (20 mm), pH 7.2, and examined with a confocal laser-scanning microscope with excitation/emission at 514/580 nm. Porphyrins were isolated according to CITATION with some modifications. One gram of inflorescence was homogenized in 4 mL of acetic acid (1.3 n) with a mortar and pestle for 2 min. Blending was continued for another 2 min while adding 5 mL of ethyl acetate, the homogenate was taken into a collection tube, the volume was made up to 25 mL with ethyl acetate, and the pH was adjusted to 3.1 with glacial acetic acid. The resulting slurry was allowed to stand overnight to form an emulsion. The emulsion was centrifuged, and after removing the organic fraction, the aqueous fraction was extracted in 10 mL of ethyl acetate saturated with HCl (15% [v/v]) and then concentrated to 4 mL. The acid extracts were combined and adjusted to pH 3.1 with a saturated solution of sodium acetate. The porphyrins were quantitatively separated from the aqueous solution into peroxide-free ether. From the ether extracts, coproporphyrin and protoporphyrin were separated using 0.2% (v/v) and 10% (v/v) HCl, respectively (CITATION). The absorbance spectra of coproporphyrin and protoporphyrin were measured over the Soret band 400 to 403 nm and 408 to 410 nm, respectively, using a scanning UV-Visible Spectrophotometer (Shimadzu) equipped with a chart recorder (Supplemental Fig. S9). The experiment was performed with three biological replicates. The mean absorbance value (at 400–403 nm for coproporphyrin and 408–410 nm for protoporphyrin) was used for histogram preparation. Error bars indicate sd. Single-stranded cDNA was prepared from 1 μg of total RNA using SuperScript III reverse transcriptase (Invitrogen) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. qRT-PCR was performed in an Applied Biosystems real-time PCR system (Life Technologies) using Power SYBR Green PCR Master mix (Life Technologies). Total cDNA was diluted to ∼25 ng μL−1, and a total of 100 ng was used in a 10-μL reaction mixture. Three technical replicates were taken for each reaction along with a no-template control to check for contaminants. The thermal cycling program for qRT-PCR was as follows: 3 min at 95°C, followed by 40 cycles of 3 s at 95°C and 30 s at 60°C, which included data acquisition. Dissociation curve analysis was performed from 65°C to 95°C in increments of 0.5°C, each lasting for 5 s, to confirm the presence of a specific product. qRT-PCR primers were designed using standard parameters available at http://eu.idtdna.com/scitools/Applications/RealTimePCR. The concentration of ACT2 (At3g18780) was used to normalize the gene expression in different samples. The 2-ΔΔCT method was used for the calculation of change in expression according to CITATION. Pistils at the FG6-7 stage were dissected and incubated in JC-1 dye (Molecular Probes) for 30 min at room temperature, washed with buffer A (20 mM HEPES buffer [pH 7.2]), and observed with a confocal microscope (Carl Zeiss). The green (excitation/emission wavelength = 485/538 nm) and red (excitation/emission wavelength = 485/590 nm) fluorescence intensities were documented from five different spots of 60 embryo sacs from wild-type and Athemn1-1 mutant plants, respectively. The mean intensity for each embryo sac was scored in both red and green channels. Then, the ratio of red to green fluorescence of JC-1 images was calculated for all the embryo sacs from both wild-type and mutant plants. The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Identification and diagrammatic representation of the T-DNA insertion in the GFP-868 mutant by the genome walking approach. Supplemental Figure S2. Genotyping of Athemn1-1 and Athemn1-2 mutant plants through PCR. Supplemental Figure S3. Complementation of the Athemn1-1 mutant by ectopic expression of the AtHEMN1 gene. Supplemental Figure S4. Stage-wise developmental analysis of pollen in wild-type and Athemn1 mutant plants. Supplemental Figure S5. NBT staining of an aborted ovule from the Athemn1 mutant showing the accumulation of ROS in the entire ovule. Supplemental Figure S6. Structure of the AtHEMN1 gene and predicted amino acid sequence of AtHEMN1. Supplemental Figure S7. Phylogenic tree of HEMN proteins of different genera constructed using the neighbor-joining method. Supplemental Figure S8. GUS expression in transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying the pAtHEMN1::uidA construct. Supplemental Figure S9. UV-visible spectra of purified coproporphyrin and protoporphyrin from wild-type and Athemn1-1 mutant inflorescences. Supplemental Table S1. Homology of the AtHEMN1 protein with CPOs from different genera. Supplemental Table S2. Details of the similarity of AtHEMN1 with mitochondria-localized hemN-type CPOs of different organisms. Supplemental Table S3. Particulars of the primers used in this study.
