!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis thaliana pathogenesis-related 1 (PR1) is an important defense protein, so far it has only been detected in extracellular space and its subcellular sorting and transport remain unexplained. Using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagged full length, as well as a C-terminus truncated version of PR1, we observed that when expressed ectopically in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, PR1 co-localizes only partially with Golgi markers, and much more prominently with the late endosome (LE)/multivesicular body (MVB) FYVE marker. The C-truncated version PR1ΔC predominantly localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The same localizations were found for stable Arabidopsis transformants with expression of PR1 and PR1ΔC driven by the native promoter. We conclude that the A. thaliana PR1 (AtPR1) undergoes an unconventional secretion pathway, starting from the C-terminus-dependent sorting from the ER, and utilizing further transportation via phosphatidyl-inositol-3-phosphate (PI(3)P) positive LE/MVB-like vesicles. The homology model of the PR1 structure shows that the cluster of positively charged amino acid residues (arginines 60, 67, 137, and lysine 135) could indeed interact with negatively charged phospholipids of cellular membranes. It remains to be resolved whether Golgi and LE/MVB localization reflects an alternative sorting or trafficking succession, and what the role of lipid interactions in it will be.
!~RES~! As the AtPR1 protein fused at the C-terminus to GFP was transiently expressed in N. benthamiana, we observed the GFP signal in compartments localized throughout the cytoplasm (CITATIONA–C). We have also designed a truncated version of PR1 with deleted 50 amino acids from the C-terminus and fused it in frame again C-terminally to GFP (AtPR1ΔC; CITATIONA,D,F). We expected that this protein will be predominantly secreted outside the cell, since it has no other known sorting signal. Surprisingly, the majority of the protein seemed to be retained in the ER and AtPR1ΔC-GFP positive compartments are not observed in contrast to AtPR1-GFP. This is supported by the observation of a strong nuclear membrane signal in AtPR1ΔC-GFP possibly coming from an over-loaded ER (CITATIOND). In order to confirm the presence of the GFP signal, we have checked the emission spectra by a lambda scan mode (CITATIONE,F), allowing us to distinguish between the real GFP signal and chloroplast autofluorescence. The PR1-positive compartments were found to be highly mobile and of variable shape, with a diameter of approximately a few hundred nanometer up to one micrometer big (CITATION). CITATION also indicates a possible occurrence of dilated subdomains of ER in transiently expressing N. benthamiana cells. As PR1 was previously reported to be localized extracellularly [CITATION,CITATION], in order to better visualize cell wall GFP signal, we subjected leaves to increased pH, as well as to plasmolysis by a high concentration of mannitol or NaCl. We observed a weak cell wall and a plasmamembrane signal after the mannitol induced plasmolysis, for both full length and C-truncated forms of PR1 (CITATION). Based on these observations, we concluded that the AtPR1 protein is localized to a vesicle-like intracellular compartments and that localization into these compartments requires an intact C-terminus in transient N. benthamiana cell expression. PR1-GFP is also localized adjacent to the plasma membrane and weakly into the apoplastic cell wall space. In order to uncover the identity of the AtPR1-positive compartment, we have performed co-localization studies of full-length PR1 using red fluorescent protein (RFP)-tagged markers for ER (dsRed-HDEL; [CITATION]), cis-Golgi marker Glycine max Golgi mannosidase-RFP (GM-RFP; [CITATION]), trans-Golgi marker sialyl transferase-RFP (ST-RFP; donated by Ian Moore, Oxford), extracellular marker pectin methyl esterase 1–RFP (PME1-RFP; [CITATION]), autophagy marker ATG8-RFP [CITATION], and PI(3)P–enriched early/late endosomal compartmental marker dsRed-FYVE [CITATION] (CITATIONA–F). PR1-GFP only weakly colocalized with the ER (CITATION). The overlap with the Golgi marker was partial and the majority of the signal overlapped with FYVE-positive compartment (CITATION). In some cases, these compartments had obvious structure, typical for MVBs—the presence of particles/vesicles within the vesicle (CITATION). Unfortunately, our time series scanning did not reveal any events resembling exosome secretion, fusion with vacuolar membrane, nor endocytotic events (CITATION). We performed the object-based quantification of colocalization of PR1-GFP with GM-RFP, ST-RFP and dsRed-FYVE. The highest proportion of the green signal overlapping with the red one was found for the combination of PR1-GFP with the dsRed-FYVE (CITATION). The PR1 obviously does not share the secretion route with PME1 (CITATIOND). No distinct co-localization with the ATG8 autophagy marker was observed (CITATIONF). Even though transiently expressed proteins are found in cells affected by pathogen attack (Agrobacterium) and have increased expression of stress-related PR1 protein, this situation does not seem to lead to a distinct increase of autophagy. In the cells observed, the ATG8 signal is mostly cytoplasmic with only a few ATG8-RFP positive autophagosomal bodies that had only partial co-localization with the PR1-GFP-positive vesicles (CITATIONF). The subset of markers was used for co-localization with the truncated form of PR1, PR1ΔC, which confirmed the previous observation that this version without the sorting signal contained in the C-terminus is localized on the ER (CITATION). In order to describe PR1 in situ in Arabidopsis we have designed PR1-GFP and PR1ΔC-GFP constructs placed under the control of the native 2 kb promoter and used it for the stable transformation of Arabidopsis. Without induction, in seven days old seedlings, almost no GFP signal was detected, and after the SA induction of PR1 expression, in cotyledons, we could see only a very weak signal in the case of the full length and slightly stronger for the truncated version of PR1 (CITATIONA,B). In order to check for the proteolysis/degradation of PR1-GFP, we have performed Western blot analysis using antibodies raised against PR1 and GFP (CITATION). We have detected high amount of endogenous PR1 (15 kDa), and significantly less of GFP tagged constructs (approximately 40 and 35 kDa for the full length and truncated version, respectively). Since the transgenic construct expression is driven by the same promoter, the fact that the expression levels differ indicates that either some distant positive transcriptional signals are missing (out of our 2 kb promoter fragment) in the transgenic PR1s, or the fused protein product is less stable than endogenous PR1. Along some unspecific bands in higher protein mass positions, there were several weaker bands of smaller proteins found with both a PR1-specific antibody that recognizes N-terminal part of PR1, as well as with an anti-GFP body which recognized the intact C-terminal part. These bands might come either from the antibody unspecificity, but also could be signs of the presence of partially proteolytically processed PR1-GFP proteins. In any case, both antibodies recognize well the full length vs. the C-terminally truncated PR1-GFP fusion versions. Using prolonged (24 h) dark incubation in combination with SA treatment of seedlings, we managed to improve the intensity of GFP constructs signal. This way we could detect the localizations, which were in agreement with previous observations—PR1ΔC-GFP on the ER and ER bodies, and PR1-GFP in a vesicles-like compartment present in the cortical cytoplasm, and also in the vacuole (CITATIONC). In order to further address the identity of PR1-positive intracellular compartment(s), we decided to use stable Arabidopsis transformation of PR1-GFP constructs driven by the 35S promoter. This allowed us to obtain a stronger signal without the need to boost the expression by SA, which in high concentrations and prolonged incubations, according to our bright field imaging, significantly affected the appearance and physiology of cells. Under the 35S promoter, in young seedlings, the AtPR1-GFP signal was well detected mainly in ER-bodies like the compartment in cotyledons, probably as an effect of overexpression, but the presence of PR1 compartments similar to those observed in N. benthamiana transient expression was also detected (CITATIONA). The three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction performed for cotyledon epidermal cells allowed the side view/optical cross section which showed that the PR1 containing compartments are accumulated just beneath the outer surface (arrowhead, CITATIONB). Bigger bodies observable in inner parts of the cells are autofluorescent plastids.
!~MM~! The seeds of A. thaliana Col-0 (Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, University of Nottingham, UK) were surface-sterilized and plated onto a half-strength Murashige and Skoog medium (1/2 MS). The plants were propagated in vitro for 7 days (23 °C, 16/8 h), and used for treatments and/or microscopical observation, or were transferred into Jiffy tablets and cultivated in a growth chamber under the same cultivation conditions (23 °C, 16/8 h). N. benthamiana seeds were surface-sterilized and plated into Jiffy tablets and placed into a growth chamber under the same cultivation conditions (23 °C, 16/8 h). For preparation and cloning of At2g14610 PR1 constructs, due to the fact that it is an intronless gene, genomic DNA from wild type Col-0 Arabidopsis was used as a template for polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Primers enabling cloning into pENTR3C vectors (Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Waltham, MA, USA) were EcoORFPR1: 5′-AAGAATTCGATGAATTTTACTGGCTATTCTCG-3′ and PR1Xho: 5′-AACTCGAGTATGGCTTCTCGTTCACATAATTCC-3′ for the full length open reading frame (ORF) and the same forward but different reverse primer for the C-truncated version PR1ΔXho: 5′-AACTCGAGTTCGCAGCGTAGTTGTAGTTAGCC-3′. For cloning of PR1 with and endogenous promoter, the same two reverse primers were used, with EcoPR1: 5′-AAGAATTCGATGTTTGAGGTTGAGTACGATGG-3′ as forward. Reverse primers were designed with an omitted STOP codon to allow in-frame fusion with GFP. Cloned constructs were transferred from an entry vector by a recombinant LR clonase of Gateway cloning system (Invitrogen, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Waltham, MA, USA) into pGWB5 (for 35S driven expression) and pGWB4 (for endogenous promoter driven expression) vectors [CITATION]. The constructs were used for the transformation of Agrobacterium tumefaciens GV3103 (Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, University of Nottingham, UK). Overnight Agrobacterium cultures were diluted in infiltration buffer (10 mM MgSO4·7H2O with 100 μM acetosyringon; both from Sigma (Sigma GmbH, Erlangen, Germany) until optical density (OD) 0.1 and used for infiltration by syringe on the abaxial N. benthamiana leaf surface. The fluorescence was observed 48 h later. Arabidopsis wild type Col-0 was transformed by Agrobacterium mediated floral dip method [CITATION]. For live-cell imaging, either infiltrated parts of N. benthamiana leaves or 5–7 day-old seedlings were used for observation under the ZeissLSM880 (Carl Zeiss GmbH, Jena, Germany) confocal microscope using ×63 oil immersion objective. Excitation wavelengths used were 488 nm for GFP and 561 nm for RFP and dsRed. The images were analyzed using Zen 2.1 Software (Carl Zeiss GmbH) and Fiji/ImageJ [CITATION,CITATION]. In order to boost the expression of PR1 protein from the construct placed under the control of endogenous promoter, SA was used (250–500 μM) for at least 24 h in liquid 1/2 MS in sterile 6-multiwell plates. Seedlings/plants were further used for confocal microscopy or protein extraction. Plasmolysis was induced with 0.8 M mannitol or 1 M NaCl. Total protein extracts were performed from two-week old plants transformed with promoterPR1::PR1-GFP and promoterPR1::PR1ΔC-GFP (after SA induction of PR1 expression) using protein extraction buffer described in Hala et al. [CITATION]. In order to visualize 15 kDa PR1 protein, 15% acrylamide gel was used. Proteins were blotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane (quality of transfer was checked by Ponceau staining) and blocked overnight at 4°C with 5% nonfat dry milk in PBS (137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, 10 mM Na2HPO4, and 2 mM KH2PO4, pH 7.4) supplemented with 0.2% Tween 20. Primary antibodies anti-PR1 (Agrisera AB, Vanas, Sweeden) and anti-GFP (Roche, Basel, Switzerland) were diluted 1:1000 and incubated with the membranes for 3 h at room temperature in the blocking solution. Horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibody (Promega, Madison, WI, USA) was applied followed by enhanced chemiluminescent ECL detection (Amersham, GE Healthcare, Chicago, IL, USA). The homology model of Arabidopsis PR1 and PR1ΔC was built using the SWISS-MODEL portal [CITATION] and evaluated by the ProSa-Web server [CITATION]. Electrostatic potential of the protein was calculated by numerically solving the nonlinear Poisson–Boltzmann equation in the APBS program [CITATION]. The VMD program [CITATION] was used to prepare CITATION and CITATION.
