!~ABS~! Microtubules are dynamic filaments, the assembly and disassembly of which are under precise control of various associated proteins, including motor proteins and regulatory enzymes. In Arabidopsis thaliana, two such proteins are the ARMADILLO-REPEAT KINESIN 1 (ARK1), which promotes microtubule disassembly, and the NIMA-RELATED KINASE 6 (NEK6), which has a role in organizing microtubule arrays. Previous yeast two-hybrid and in vitro pull-down assays determined that NEK6 can interact with ARK1 through the latter protein’s Armadillo-repeat (ARM) cargo domain. To explore the function of the ARM domain, we generated fluorescent reporter fusion proteins to ARK1 lacking the ARM domain (ARK1ΔARM–GFP) and to the ARM domain alone (ARM–GFP). Both of these constructs strongly associated with the growing plus ends of microtubules, but only ARK1ΔARM–GFP was capable of inducing microtubule catastrophe and rescuing the ark1-1 root hair phenotype. These results indicate that neither the ARM domain nor NEK6’s putative interaction with it is required for ARK1 to induce microtubule catastrophe. In further exploration of the ARK1–NEK6 relationship, we demonstrated that, despite evidence that NEK6 can phosphorylate ARK1 in vitro, the in vivo distribution and function of ARK1 were not affected by the loss of NEK6, and vice versa. Moreover, NEK6 and ARK1 were found to have overlapping but non-identical distribution on microtubules, and hormone treatments known to affect NEK6 activity did not stimulate interaction. These findings suggest that ARK1 and NEK6 function independently in microtubule dynamics and cell morphogenesis. Despite the results of this functional analysis, we found that overexpression of the ARM domain led to complete loss of NEK6 transcription, suggesting that the ARM domain might have a regulatory role in NEK6 expression.
!~RES~! Our previous work demonstrated that ARK1 without the ARM domain (ARK1ΔARM) remains bound to microtubules (CITATION), suggesting that the motor domain alone was sufficient for microtubule binding. However, in this study, the ARK1ΔARM–monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP) protein was overexpressed, leading to artifactual labeling of the entire microtubule much like what was observed with the full-length ARK1–mRFP reporter driven by the same UBIQUITIN10 (UBQ10) promoter. Because of this artifactual microtubule labeling, we were unable to characterize fully the motor domain of ARK1. In order to elucidate the function of the motor domain further, we generated a translational reporter of ARK1 lacking the ARM domain (ARK1ΔARM–GFP) driven by the ARK1 promoter (Supplementary Fig. S1). This construct was transformed into an ark1-1 line expressing 35Spro:mCherry-MAP4MBD (CITATION) to enable microtubules to be viewed along with the truncated ARK1. Images were collected using variable-angle total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRF). In contrast to our prediction that ARK1 should lose function without its C-terminal ARM domain, the ARK1pro:ARK1ΔARM-GFP construct was able to rescue the ark1-1 root-hair phenotype (Fig. 1A). Moreover, ARK1ΔARM–GFP displayed the same plus-end microtubule distribution pattern as full-length ARK1–GFP (Fig. 1B, C; Supplementary Movies S1, S2) and tracked the growing plus ends of microtubules at similar velocities to the-full length ARK1–GFP (ARK1–GFP, 5.6 ± 0.9 µm min–1; ARK1ΔARM–GFP, 5.9 ± 0.8 µm min–1; two-sample t-test = 0.064) (Fig. 1D). In addition, the microtubule plus-end catastrophe frequencies of plants expressing ARK1ΔARM-GFP and ARK1-GFP showed no significant difference (ARK1–GFP, 0.019 ± 0.009 events s–1; ARK1ΔARM–GFP, 0.016 ± 0.008 events s–1; two-sample t-test = 0.108) (Fig. 1E). Based on these data, we conclude that ARK1 is fully functional as a catastrophe factor without the ARM domain, and that the motor domain may confer microtubule plus-end tracking and microtubule catastrophe.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Having discovered that ARK1 is functional as a catastrophe factor without its ARM domain, we sought to determine the function of the ARM domain. An ARK1pro:ARM-GFP construct (Supplementary Fig. S1) was transformed into ark1-1; 35Spro:mCherry-MAP4MBD plants, and images were acquired with spinning-disk confocal microscopy. ARM–GFP specifically localized to growing microtubule plus ends (Fig. 1F; Supplementary Fig. S2A–C; Supplementary Movies S3, S4), similar to the plus end-binding protein, EB1b (CITATION). In some cells, GFP appeared to accumulate in highly connected tubule structures reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum (Supplementary Fig. S2D), suggesting instability of the ARM–GFP protein. Furthermore, silencing of ARM–GFP also occurred since some cells completely lacked ARM-GFP expression (Fig. 1F). The ARK1pro:ARM-GFP construct failed to complement the ark1-1 root hair phenotype (Fig. 1G), consistent with our finding (Fig. 1E) that the ARM domain does not contribute to ARK1’s role in promoting microtubule catastrophe. The ARM–GFP’s plus-end localization suggests that the domain could contribute to ARK1’s ability to plus-end track on microtubules. Based on NEK6’s ability to interact with ARK1 (CITATION), we hypothesized that NEK6 also phosphorylates ARK1. To address this, we expressed the N-terminal motor domain of ARK1 and full-length NEK6 proteins in Escherichia coli and purified them for use in an in vitro kinase assay. Our data showed that ARK1 was phosphorylated in the presence of NEK6 (Fig. 2A). Furthermore, we found that NEK6 itself was phosphorylated and that the amount of phosphorylation was negatively correlated with ARK1 phosphorylation levels and ARK1 protein concentration (Fig. 2A, B). As a positive control, NEK6 was also incubated with the β-tubulin isoform TUB4 protein (Fig. 2A). We noted that, as with NEK6, TUB4 phosphorylation was also negatively correlated with ARK1 protein concentration and phosphorylation levels (Fig. 2A). Taken together, our data reveal that in addition to phosphorylating TUB4 as previously described (CITATION), NEK6 phosphorylates itself and ARK1, further confirming a physical interaction in vitro and suggesting that ARK1 and NEK6 interact both physically and functionally in vivo.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To determine if NEK6 and ARK1 influence each other’s association with microtubules, we examined the distribution patterns of NEK6–GFP in ark1-1 mutants and ARK1–GFP in nek6/ibo1-1 mutants. We first hypothesized that if NEK6 can interact with the ARM domain of ARK1, the association of NEK6–GFP with microtubules should be altered in root hairs of the ark1-1 mutant. We examined NEK6–GFP distribution in root hairs, where ARK1 is exclusively expressed, as well as in hypocotyl and non-root hair-forming epidermal cells, in which ARK1 is expressed (CITATION). NEK6–GFP distribution appeared no different between the ibo1-1/nek6 (complemented) (Fig. 3A) and ibo1-1 ark1-1 backgrounds (Fig. 3B). In both genotypes, NEK6–GFP had an uneven and patchy microtubule distribution and, more importantly, displayed similar movements on microtubules (Supplementary Movies S5, S6). Finally, the ibo1-1 epidermal cell protrusion phenotype remained complemented by NEK6–GFP (Supplementary Fig. S3) in the ibo1-1 ark1-1 background, which indicates that NEK6–GFP is functional without ARK1.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] The absence of any changes in NEK6 distribution in the ark1-1 background could have resulted from ARK1 functional redundancy with its homologs, ARK2 and ARK3, which are also expressed in hypocotyls and petioles (ARK2) and leaf tissue (ARK3) (CITATION, CITATION). We considered the possibility that ARK2 and/or ARK3 might compensate for the lack of ARK1, thus leading to unchanged NEK6–GFP microtubule labeling in the ark1-1 background. To test this, we visualized NEK6–GFP in an ibo1-1 ark1-1 ark2-1 triple mutant and ibo1-1 ark1-1 ark2-1 ark3-1 quadruple mutant. NEK6–GFP’s localization to microtubules was unchanged (Fig. 3C, D; Supplementary Movies S7, S8). Taken together, our observations demonstrate that NEK6’s microtubule localization and function do not require any of the three ARKs. To test whether ARK1’s function and distribution on microtubules depend on NEK6, we examined the distribution of ARK1–GFP in the nek6-1 mutant, a T-DNA insertion line that is devoid of NEK6 expression (CITATION). We found that in nek6-1 root hairs, ARK1–GFP localized to both cortical and endoplasmic microtubules (Fig. 4A). Furthermore, ARK1pro:ARK1-GFP expression rescued the ark1-1 root hair phenotype in the nek6-1 background, suggesting that ARK1–GFP is functional in the absence of NEK6 (Fig. 4B). Because nek6-1 mutants have protruding hypocotyl and petiole epidermal cells, we examined ARK1–GFP distribution in these cell types. As in the wild-type hypocotyl cells (Fig. 4C), ARK1–GFP remained at the plus ends of microtubules in the nek6-1 hypocotyls (Fig. 4D). These results suggest that ARK1’s distribution and function are independent of NEK6. Furthermore, because NEK6’s kinase activity is abolished in nek6-1 knock out lines, we conclude that ARK1’s function and microtubule association do not require NEK6-dependent phosphorylation.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Taken together, the above experiments suggest that ARK1 and NEK6 are mutually independent with respect to function and distribution under normal growth conditions. Nevertheless, it remains possible that ARK1 and NEK6 function within the same genetic pathway to influence microtubule dynamics and cell elongation. Epidermal protrusions in nek6-1 mutants were previously reported to be suppressed in dark-grown plants (CITATION). We therefore generated nek6-1 ark1-1 double mutants, and tested whether the ark1-1 mutation could enhance the nek6 epidermal protrusion phenotype in hypocotyls and petioles of both light- and dark-grown plants (Fig. 5A–C). In light-grown hypocotyls, the number of epidermal protrusions was not significantly different between the nek6-1 ark1-1 double mutants (7.3 ± 5.6 protrusions per hypocotyl) and the nek6-1 single mutants (8.0 ± 4.0 protrusions per hypocotyl) (Fig. 5A, B, D). In dark-grown nek6-1 ark1-1 and nek6-1 plants, epidermal protrusions did not form (Fig. 5C, D) and were similarly absent in both light- and dark-grown wild-type and ark1-1 plants (Fig. 5A, C, D). These results suggest that NEK6 and ARK1 function independently in the regulation of cell elongation and microtubule dynamics.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Based on the lack of evidence for ARK1 and NEK6 functional interaction under normal experimental conditions, we considered the possibility that interactions only occur under extreme conditions in which rapid growth is stimulated or growth is inhibited. The number of protruding cells in nek6 mutants can be reduced by exposure to gibberellic acid and increased by exposure to the ethylene precursor, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) (CITATION). In fact, NEK6 and ethylene/ACC are predicted to function in a negative feedback loop, with ACC inducing NEK6 expression and NEK6 overexpression leading to reductions in the expression of ethylene-related genes and ethylene biosynthesis (CITATION). We therefore hypothesized that ARK1–NEK6 interaction can be stimulated by exposure to gibberellic acid or ACC. To test this, we developed an experimental line co-expressing NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP and ARK1pro:ARK1-TagRFP in an ibo1-1 ark1-1 double mutant background. In contrast to the growing microtubule plus-end distribution pattern of ARK1–GFP (CITATION), the ARK1–TagRFP was found along the full length of microtubules and remained associated with microtubules during growth and shrinkage (Supplementary Fig. S4A, B; Supplementary Movie S9). Despite this unusual distribution pattern, expressing ARK1pro:ARK1-TagRFP rescued the ark1-1 root hair phenotype (Supplementary Fig. S4C), indicating that the protein was fully functional. NEK6–GFP had a patchy distribution along microtubules in mock treatments (Supplementary Fig. S4A). Upon exposure to 50 µM ACC or 10 µM gibberellic acid (Fig. 6A–C), the ARK1–TagRFP and NEK6–GFP distribution patterns remained indistinguishable from the mock treatments. This observation indicates that neither gibberellic acid nor ACC stimulates or alters NEK6–ARK1 interaction.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] We next hypothesized that NEK6 or ARK1 function/localization may be altered in either the ark1 or nek6 background, respectively, when exposed to exogenous gibberellic acid or ACC. The NEK6–GFP in the ark1-1 background showed no changes with gibberellic acid and ACC (Supplementary Fig. S4). Similarly, the ARK1–GFP in the nek6-1 background remained microtubule plus-end localized in ACC and gibberellic acid treatments (Supplementary Fig. S5). In summary, despite their effects on the nek6 cell protrusion phenotype, ACC and gibberellic acid treatments did not reveal any evidence for interactions between NEK6 and ARK1. In a previous study, overexpressing ARM–RFP using the UBQ10 promoter resulted in labeling along the full length of microtubules (CITATION). In a final attempt to detect a NEK6–ARK1 in vivo interaction, we transformed the ibo1-1 ark1-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP line with the high expression UBQ10pro:ARM-mRFP construct (Supplementary Fig. S1) to see if the ARM–mRFP distribution along the full length of microtubules would alter the NEK6–GFP distribution pattern. Of 30 independent ibo1-1 ark1-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP UBQ10pro:ARM-mRFP transgenic lines recovered, all 28 lines positive for NEK6–GFP lacked ARM–mRFP signal (Fig. 7A). The remaining two transgenic lines showed ARM–RFP along the entire length of the microtubule, but in both cases NEK6–GFP was undetectable, either on microtubules or within the cytoplasm (Fig. 7B). To determine if the lack of NEK6–GFP resulted from absent NEK6-GFP expression in plants overexpressing ARM-mRFP, we conducted reverse transcription–PCR (RT–PCR) using GFP-specific primers. In the two transgenic lines overexpressing ARM-mRFP, NEK6-GFP expression was absent, suggesting transcriptional inhibition of NEK6-GFP (Fig. 7C). Conversely, and as expected, NEK6-GFP transcript was detected in the transgenic lines that lacked ARM–mRFP but had NEK6–GFP fluorescence. The two lines lacking NEK6-GFP expression were confirmed to carry the NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP transgene by genotyping with GFP-specific primers (Supplementary Fig. S7). Given these unexpected results, we hypothesized that the ARM domains of ARK1 and ARK2/3 can act as negative regulators of NEK6 expression. To test this, we measured the NEK6-GFP transcript levels in the absence of ARK1/2/3 under the assumption that NEK6-GFP expression should increase without any of the ARKs suppressing its expression. With quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), we found that the NEK6-GFP expression level in the ibo1-1 ark1-1 ark2-1 ark3-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP background was 1.41-fold higher relative to the complemented ibo1-NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP background (Fig. 7D). Our results therefore suggest that the ARM domain of the ARK proteins is a negative regulator of NEK6 expression.  [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Gateway Cloning Technology (Invitrogen, Life Technologies) was used for the various ARK1 constructs. To generate the ARK1pro:ARK1-TagRFP construct, the ARK1 genomic sequence (between 888 bp upstream of the ATG/start codon and the TGA/stop codon) was amplified from the F28P10 bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC; from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center, Ohio State University) using the full-length ARK1 genomic sequence primer set (see Supplementary Table S1). A second PCR with the attB-adaptor primers was performed according to the manufacturer’s protocol (see Invitrogen Gateway manual for attB-adaptor sequences). Following the BP reaction with the various attB PCR products and the pDONR221 vector (Invitrogen, Life Technologies), an LR reaction was performed with the pGWB659 vector (CITATION). The UBQ10pro:ARM-mRFP construct was created as previously described (CITATION). For the ARK1pro:ARK1ΔARM-GFP and ARK1pro:ARM-GFP constructs, Multisite Gateway Cloning technology was used (Invitrogen, Life Technologies). First, the ARK1 promoter was amplified from the F28P10 BAC template using primers designed for Multisite Gateway Cloning (see Supplementary Table S1). The ARK1 promoter PCR product with the attB1/4 sites was then recombined into the pDONR221 P4-P1r using the BP Clonase II (Invitrogen, Life Technologies) to create the pENTR-ARK1pro construct. A multisite Gateway LR reaction was then performed using pENTR-ARK1pro and pENTR-ARK1ΔARM/pENTR-ARM (the latter two constructs generated in CITATION) and the binary vector, R4pGWB504 (with a C-terminal sGFP tag) (CITATION) using the LR Clonase II Plus enzyme (Invitrogen, Life Technologies). All constructs were sequenced prior to transformation. To generate ibo1-1 ark1-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP and ibo1-1 ark1-1 ark2-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP lines, the ibo1-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP line (CITATION) was crossed with the ark1-1 single mutant and ark1-1 ark2-1 double mutants, respectively. For the ibo1-1 ark1-1 ark2-1 ark3-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP line, the ibo1-1 ark1-1 ark2-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP line was crossed into the ark3-1 mutant. The ARK T-DNA insertion lines (ark1-1, SALK_035063; ark2-1, SALK_124908; ark3-1, SALK_055586) were genotyped with the primers listed in Supplementary Table S1 and the LB1b.3 primer (5′ ATTTTGCCGATTTCGGAAC 3′). The desired homozygous lines were recovered from the F3 generation and were used for further experiments. The nek6-1 ark1-1; ARK1pro:ARK1-GFP 35Spro:mCherry-MAP4MBD line (CITATION) was generated by crossing the nek6-1 (SALK_152782) line (CITATION) into the ark1-1; ARK1pro:ARK1-GFP 35Spro:mCherry-MAP4MBD line (CITATION). For stable transgenic lines, the ARK1pro:ARK1-TagRFP and UBQ10pro:ARM-RFP constructs were transformed into the ibo1-1 ark1-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP line (CITATION) using the floral dip method (CITATION). Homozygous T3 lines for each TagRFP/GFP construct were segregated and used for further experiments. All seeds were sterilized in 70% ethanol, rinsed three times with double-distilled water (ddH2O) and plated onto Petri dishes with Hoagland’s medium [1.2% Bacto-agar (BD Diagnostics), no sucrose]. For hormone treatments, ACC (Sigma), gibberellic acid (Sigma) or dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO; Fisher Scientific) were added to Hoagland’s medium to the desired final concentrations. Plates with seeds were stored in the dark at 4°C for 2–3 d and transferred to a 21°C growth cabinet (24 h light), and grown vertically until imaging. For untreated samples, 5- to 7-day-old seedlings were used for imaging. For hormone-treated samples, seedlings were grown on Hoagland’s medium with DMSO for 4 d before being transferred to the plates with hormones for 2 d prior to imaging. Spinning-disk confocal images were acquired with the Perkin Elmer Ultraview VoX Spinning-Disk Confocal system (Perkin-Elmer) mounted on a Leica DMI6000 B inverted microscope and equipped with a Hamamatsu 9100-02 electron multiplier CCD camera (Hamamatsu). An argon 488 nm laser line with a complementary GFP (525/36) emission band-pass filter or a 561 nm laser with a complementary RFP (595/50) emission band-pass filter was used. Images were acquired with a × 63 (water) objective lens [numerical aperture (NA) = 1.2] with 0.3–0.5 µm optical z-slices. Seedlings were mounted in either water or the hormone solutions during imaging. For variable-angle TIRF microscopy, 7 d dark-grown hypocotyls were imaged on a Zeiss Axiovert Z1 microscope with a Zeiss TIRF III slider, a diode-pumped solid-state laser (wavelengths: 488 nm, 561 nm) and a Rolera EM-C2 EM-CCD camera. Images were visualized with a Zeiss × 63 (oil) objective lens (NA = 1.46) and acquired every 8 s for 3 min. Images of the hypocotyl and petiole epidermal cells were taken with a Leica M216FA Stereomicroscope (Leica Microsystems) equipped with a DFC 350 FX R2 camera (Leica Microsystems). For the light and dark growth experiments, 10-day old seedlings were grown in either light or complete darkness at 21°C. All images were processed and analyzed using ImageJ (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/). ARK1–GFP and ARK1ΔARM–GFP velocities were measured using the Manual Tracking plug-in (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/ij/plugins/track/track.html). For determination of the catastrophe frequency of microtubules in the ARK1pro:ARK1-GFP and ARK1pro:ARK1ΔARM-GFP lines, the inverse of the duration of time spent tracking one microtubule plus end was taken. Statistical analyses used throughout the study (means, SDs, F-tests and t-tests) were performed with Excel (Microsoft). F-tests and t-tests used α = 0.01. The glutathione S-transferase (GST)-tagged NEK6 and 6 × His-tagged TUB4 constructs were described in CITATION and CITATION, respectively. ARK1 cDNA encoding the kinesin motor-like domain and the coiled-coil domain (amino acid residues 1–775) was amplified by PCR with high-fidelity KOD-Plus DNA polymerase (TOYOBO) and primers (5′ AAAAG GATCC ATGAG TTCGT CAAAT TCCTCC 3′ and 5′ AAAAT CTAGA TTGAG CTCCA GATTC TGCTG 3′), and cloned into the BamHI and XbaI sites of the maltose-binding protein (MBP) fusion vector pMAL-c2 (New England BioLabs). Each construct was transformed into E.coli strain KRX (Promega). Recombinant proteins were induced by the addition of 0.2 mM isopropyl-1-thio-β-galactopyranoside and 0.1% rhamnose, and further incubated at 20°C for 16 h. Escherichia coli cells expressing GST–NEK6 and MBP–ARK1 were recovered by centrifugation (6,000 r.p.m. for 5 min at 4°C) and re-suspended in a buffer [50 mM Tris–HCl pH 8.0, 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 1 mM dithiothreitol (DTT)]. Cells expressing His-TUB4 were recovered by centrifugation and resuspended in a buffer (50 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.0, 6 M guanidine-HCl, 300 mM NaCl). Cells were lysed using a French press (SLM Instruments, Inc). The lysate was centrifuged at 15,000 r.p.m. for 15 min at 4°C and the supernatant was used for the affinity purification. The GST-tagged NEK6 was purified with glutathione–Sepharose 4B (GE Healthcare) according to the manufacturer’s instruction. The His-tagged TUB4 was purified with TALON metal affinity resin (Clontech). The MBP-tagged ARK1 was purified with amylose resin (New England BioLabs). A 1 µg aliquot each of GST–NEK6 and His-TUB4 was incubated with or without various amounts of MBP–ARK1 in 20 µl of kinase buffer (50 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.4, 10 mM MnCl2, 1 mM DTT, 10 µM ATP and 10 µCi of [γ-32P]ATP) at 24°C for 30 min. Reaction products were separated by SDS–PAGE followed by staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue R250 (CBB). Phosphorylated proteins were detected with an image analyzer (FLA-7000 IP, Fujifilm) and imaging plates (BAS-MS2040). Wild-type (Col-0) and ibo1-1 ark1-1; NEK6pro:NEK6-GFP UBQ10pro:ARM-RFP (lines with and without NEK6-GFP expression) seeds were germinated on Hoagland’s medium (no sucrose) under continuous light conditions. Seven-day-old seedlings (n = 20) were flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen and ground with a mortar and pestle to extract total RNA as previously described (CITATION). cDNA was synthesized using 500 ng of total RNA (per line), oligo d(T)18 (Integrated DNA Technologies) and SuperScript® III Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen, Life Technologies). PCR was carried out using GFP-specific primers (Forward, 5′ GAC GTA AAC GGC CAC AAG T 3′; Reverse, 5′ GTA GCG GCT GAA GCA CTG 3′) as well as F-actin primers for the control (Forward, 5′ TTT CAA ACC TGC TCC TCC TT 3′; Reverse, 5′ GAG ACA TCG TTT CCA TGA CG 3′). Thirty cycles of annealing and extension steps were done. Equal volumes of the PCR were run on a 2% agarose gel with ethidium bromide. Three technical replicates and two biological replicates were performed. Seven-day-old ibo1-1; NEK6pro:NEK6:GFP and ibo1-1 ark1-1 ark2-1 ark3-1; NEK6pro:NEK6:GFP whole seedlings [germinated on Hoagland’s medium (no sucrose)] were flash-frozen and ground in liquid nitrogen with a mortar and pestle. Total RNA was extracted using a combined TRIzol and silica spin column method (CITATION). Briefly, approximately 100 mg of frozen tissue was mixed with 1 ml of TRIzol® reagent (Invitrogen, Life Technologies). Samples were then mixed with 200 µl of chloroform and centrifuged at 12,000 × g for 10 min at 4°C. The aqueous phase was collected for RNA isolation and purification. The total RNA was treated with DNase I (Amplification Grade, Invitrogen) to remove any residual DNA. cDNA was synthesized using 500 ng of total RNA and SuperScript® II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen, Life Technologies) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Transcript levels of NEK6-GFP were analyzed using GFP primers (Forward, 5′ GAC GTA AAC GGC CAC AAG T 3′; Reverse, 5′ GTA GCG GCT GAA GCA CTG 3′). MUSE3 (AT5G15400) was used as the reference gene (primers: Forward, 5′GTG GGA GCA GAG ACC AAC TC 3′; Reverse, 5′ TGG CAA CCC TCT CAA CCA TC 3′). qRT-PCR was performed with SensiFAST™ SYBR® & Fluorescein Mix (BIOLINE) in a Bio-Rad iQ5 thermal cycler for 35 cycles. Three independent biological replicates were performed. The Pfaffl method (CITATION) was used to determine relative expression levels.
