!~ABS~! The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) COP1/SPA ubiquitin ligase is a central repressor that suppresses light signaling in darkness by targeting positive regulators of the light response, mainly transcription factors, for degradation. Light inactivates COP1/SPA, in part by excluding COP1 from the nucleus. SPA proteins are essential cofactors of COP1, but their exact role in the COP1/SPA complex is thus far unknown. To unravel a potential role of SPA proteins in COP1 nucleocytoplasmic partitioning, we monitored the subcellular localization of COP1 in a spa1234 quadruple mutant (spaQn). We analyzed a YFP-COP1-expressing transgenic line and endogenous COP1 after subcellular fractionation. In dark-grown seedlings, both YFP-COP1 and endogenous COP1 accumulated in the nucleus in the absence and presence of SPA proteins, indicating that SPA proteins are not required for nuclear localization of COP1 in darkness. In contrast, in white light-grown seedlings, spaQn mutants failed to relocalize COP1 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Hence, SPA proteins are necessary for the light-controlled change in COP1 subcellular localization. We conclude that SPA proteins have a dual role: (1) they are required for light-responsiveness of COP1 subcellular localization, and (2) they promote COP1 activity in darkness in a fashion that is independent of the nuclear import/nuclear retention of COP1.
!~RES~! Since SPA proteins are essential for COP1 function in darkness, we asked whether SPA proteins are required for the nuclear localization of COP1 in dark-grown seedlings. To this end, we crossed the 35S::YFP-COP1 transgene (CITATION) into the spaQn mutant background that carries null alleles of all four Arabidopsis SPA genes (CITATION). As a control, we first analyzed YFP-COP1 localization in the progenitor line, that is, in a SPA wild-type background. Distinct YFP-COP1 photobodies were detected in the hypocotyl nuclei of dark-grown seedlings, whereas no such signal was detected in hypocotyls of seedlings grown in continuous white light (Wc; Fig. 1A). The weak, round-shaped signals localized outside the nucleus of light-grown seedlings were background signals, likely derived from chloroplasts, since they were equally found in nontransgenic wild-type seedlings (Fig. 1A). The disappearance of YFP-COP1 from the nucleus in Wc was not due to YFP-COP1 degradation, since total YFP-COP1 levels were not lowered by Wc treatment (Supplemental Fig. S1). In total, these results are in close agreement with previous findings (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). [[FIGURE]] In spaQn 35S::YFP-COP1 seedlings grown in darkness, nuclear YFP-COP1 photobodies were observed that were very similar to those observed in the parental 35S::YFP-COP1 line (Fig. 1C). Thus, SPA proteins are not essential for nuclear accumulation and photobody formation of YFP-COP1. While no visual change in YFP-COP1 photobody formation was detected between SPA wild-type and spaQn backgrounds, there might still be a quantitative difference in the nuclear YFP-COP1 accumulation in the dark. To investigate this possibility, nuclear fluorescence intensity was measured in hypocotyl nuclei of the YFP-COP1-expressing seedlings. To this end, we generated 3-dimensional images (z-stacks) from DAPI-stained hypocotyl cells of 35S::YFP-COP1 seedlings using confocal microscopy. Detecting both DAPI and YFP signals in these stacks allowed us to measure YFP-fluorescence intensities within the 3-dimensional space of a nucleus (see “Materials and Methods” for further details). In a SPA wild-type background, nuclear YFP-COP1 fluorescence intensity was strongly reduced in Wc-grown seedlings when compared to dark-grown seedlings (Fig. 1B), thus confirming the visual impression shown in Figure 1a. When comparing YFP-COP1 fluorescence intensity in nuclei of dark-grown 35S::YFP-COP1 and spaQn 35S::YFP-COP1 seedlings, no dramatic difference was observed (Fig. 1D). Especially considering that total YFP-COP1 levels were somewhat reduced in dark-grown spaQn when compared to the SPA-wild-type background (Supplemental Fig. S1), these results confirm that nuclear accumulation of YFP-COP1 is not impaired by the absence of SPA proteins. We subsequently assessed YFP-COP1 subcellular localization in hypocotyl cells of Wc-grown seedlings. As shown above, YFP-COP1 did not form detectable photobodies in a SPA wild-type background. However, notably, in the spaQn background, many nuclear-localized YFP-COP1 speckles were observed (Fig. 2A). Fluorescence intensity quantification confirmed that the nuclear YFP-COP1 signal was significantly higher in spaQn when compared to the SPA wild-type background (Fig. 2B). This increase in YFP-COP1 fluorescence in the nuclei of spaQn seedlings is not due to impaired YFP-COP1 protein degradation, because total levels of YFP-COP1 were lower, rather than higher, in Wc-grown spaQn than in SPA wild-type seedlings (Supplemental Fig. S1). When directly comparing nuclear YFP-COP1 fluorescence in dark- and Wc-grown spaQn seedlings, there was no detectable difference in photobody formation (Fig. 2C), and the nuclear YFP-COP1 signal intensity was even higher in Wc than in darkness (Fig. 2D). Taken together, these results suggest that light-regulated nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of YFP-COP1 is strongly impaired in the spaQn background. [[FIGURE]] The observations made using the transgenic 35S::YFP-COP1 line suggest that SPA proteins are required for light-induced nuclear exclusion of COP1. We further tested this hypothesis by analyzing endogenous COP1 levels in nuclear and cytosolic fractions derived from biochemical fractionation experiments. In the wild type, the abundance of nuclear COP1 decreased in Wc-grown seedlings when compared to dark-grown seedlings, while concomitantly the cytosolic COP1 levels increased in Wc when compared to darkness (Fig. 3A). This finding is consistent with results obtained previously (CITATION) and confirms that COP1 is excluded from the nucleus in the light. In the spaQn mutant, light did not cause a dramatic change in COP1 levels in the nuclear fraction or in the cytosolic fraction. Importantly, light exposure did not cause a reduction in nuclear COP1 levels. Similarly, cytosolic COP1 levels were not increased by light in spaQn (Fig. 3A; Supplemental Table S1). No major differences in total COP1 levels were detected between wild-type and spaQn seedlings (Fig. 3B; Supplemental Table S1), suggesting that differences observed in COP1 subcellular localization between wild type and spaQn are not due to differential COP1 protein stability. In total, these results indicate that nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of the COP1 protein was strongly impaired in light-grown spaQn mutant seedlings. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, these results agree with the observations made using the YFP-COP1-expressing seedlings and thus indicate that SPA proteins are not important for nuclear accumulation of COP1 in darkness, but are instead important for the light response of COP1, that is, for dissolving COP1 photobodies and for excluding COP1 from the nucleus in the light. When analyzed in a GUS-COP1-expressing line, nuclear exclusion appeared to be strongest in white light, but was also induced to varying degrees by FRc, Rc, and Bc (CITATION). These results, combined with the finding that YFP-COP1 still formed speckles in hypocotyl cells of Wc-grown seedlings in the spaQn background, motivated us to investigate the nuclear accumulation of YFP-COP1 in the spaQn mutant grown in monochromatic light. To this end, we grew seedlings expressing YFP-COP1 in the SPA wild-type and the spaQn mutant backgrounds in Rc, FRc, and Bc. In the SPA wild-type background, YFP-COP1 speckles were not detectable in both FRc and Bc, that is, FRc and Bc-grown seedlings appeared similar to Wc-grown seedlings (Fig. 4A). In contrast, we detected strong nuclear YFP-COP1 accumulation in Rc in this line, with photobody formation that was at least as strong as in darkness. Microscopy of spaQn YFP-COP1 seedlings grown in these light conditions revealed the formation of speckles in both Rc and FRc (Fig. 4B), while we were not able to detect YFP-COP1 speckles in Bc-grown seedlings. Hence, FRc exposure, similar to Wc exposure, abolished nuclear YFP-COP1 photobody formation in a SPA-dependent manner. In Rc, YFP-COP1 speckle formation did not change when compared to dark-grown seedlings, neither in the SPA wild-type nor in the spaQn mutant background, suggesting that Rc exposure was not sufficient to exclude YFP-COP1 from the nucleus in this transgenic line. We used the maximum fluence rate of Rc that can be produced by our LED light sources (60 µmol m−2 s−1), which should be sufficient to fully activate phyB. In Bc, YFP-COP1 speckles were absent in both the SPA wild-type and the spaQn mutant background, indicating that removal of YFP-COP1 from the nucleus in Bc is SPA-independent. Taken together, these results suggest a complex coaction of various photoreceptors in the control of nucleo-cytoplasmic partitioning of YFP-COP1. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! The genotypes spa1-100 spa2-2 spa3-1 spa4-3 (spaQn) and 35S::YFP-COP1 (cop1-4) were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). spaQn plants expressing 35S::YFP-COP1 were generated by crossing 35S::YFP-COP1 (cop1-4) to a spa1 spa2 spa3 mutant segregating for the spa4-3 allele. 35S::YFP-COP1 spaQn plants were identified by PCR using primers distinguishing between the respective mutant and wild-type alleles and fluorescence microscopy for the presence of the 35S::YFP-COP1 transgene. LED light sources and growth conditions were described previously (CITATION; CITATION). Four-day-old seedlings expressing 35S::YFP-COP1 were used to analyze YFP-COP1 subcellular localization. For identification of nuclei, seedlings were stained with 1 µg/mL DAPI solution for 15 to 20 min at room temperature, rinsed in 70% ethanol, and mounted in water. Seedlings were observed under a Leica SP8 confocal laser-scanning microscope. DAPI fluorescence was excited with a Diode 405 laser and observed between 443 and 488 nm, while YFP fluorescence was excited with an Argon 514 laser and observed between 520 and 580 nm. Hyperstacks obtained from confocal laser-scanning microscopy were analyzed in 3D-ImageJ Suite (CITATION, CITATION; CITATION). First, 3D thresholding of DAPI z-stacks was achieved with the tool “3D Hysteresis Thresholding.” Thresholded images were then segmented with the tool “3D segmentation” to receive coherent, 3-dimensional regions of interest (RoIs). Nuclear volume was measured by capturing the volume of RoIs with “Measure 3D.” Finally, RoIs were superimposed on 3D-filtered YFP z-stacks to capture fluorescence intensity of nuclei with “Quantif 3D.” For each genotype and condition, 8 to 10 seedlings were analyzed in each experiment. For each seedling, the fluorescence of 2 to 20 nuclei was quantified, as indicated in the legends of the presented experiments. Since fluorescence values differed significantly between experiments performed on different days, only fluorescence values obtained from the same experiment were directly compared in this study. The observations made in the experiments described above were robust in at least two independent replicate experiments. Total protein was extracted from approximately 100 mg seedling tissue as described (CITATION). Nuclei-enriched and nuclei-depleted protein fractions were prepared from approximately 3 g seedling tissue using the Cell Lytic Plant Nuclear Extraction Kit (Sigma-Aldrich) with modifications according to CITATION. Equal amounts of total protein and equal volumes of nuclei-enriched and nuclei-depleted protein were used for immunoblot analysis. Proteins were detected using anti-Histone H3 (Abcam), anti-PEPC (Rockland), anti-HSC70 (Stressgen), and anti-COP1 (CITATION) primary antibodies in combination with antirabbit IgG-HRP and antimouse IgG-HRP (Sigma-Aldrich) secondary antibodies, respectively. HRP activity was detected using the SuperSignal West Femto Maximum Sensitivity kit (Thermo Scientific) and visualized by a LAS-4000 Mini bioimager (GE Healthcare Life Sciences). Protein bands were quantified using the ImageJ Gel Analyzer plugin. COP1 (At2g32950), SPA1 (At2g46340), SPA2 (At4g11110), SPA3 (At3g15354), SPA4 (At1g53090). The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. YFP-COP1 protein levels in 35S::YFP-COP1 and 35S::YFP-COP1 spaQn. Supplemental Table S1. Quantification of total and nuclear COP1 levels in extracts of wild-type and spaQn Arabidopsis seedlings grown in darkness or continuous white light for 4 d. Supplemental Table S2. Summary of COP1 subcellular localization obtained by fluorescence microscopy of transgenic 35S::YFP-COP1 seedlings and subcellular fractionation of wild-type seedlings
