!~ABS~! To understand the biogenesis of the thylakoid membrane in higher plants and to identify auxiliary proteins required to build up this highly complex membrane system, we have characterized the allelic nuclear mutants high chlorophyll fluorescence222-1 (hcf222-1) and hcf222-2 and isolated the causal gene by map-based cloning. In the ethyl methanesulfonate-induced mutant hcf222-1, the accumulation of the cytochrome b6f (Cytb6f) complex was reduced to 30% compared with the wild type. Other thylakoid membrane complexes accumulated to normal levels. The T-DNA knockout mutant hcf222-2 showed a more severe defect with respect to thylakoid membrane proteins and accumulated only 10% of the Cytb6f complex, accompanied by a reduction in photosystem II, the photosystem II light-harvesting complex, and photosystem I. HCF222 encodes a protein of 99 amino acids in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) that has similarities to the cysteine-rich zinc-binding domain of DnaJ chaperones. The insulin precipitation assay demonstrated that HCF222 has disulfide reductase activity in vitro. The protein is conserved in higher plants and bryophytes but absent in algae and cyanobacteria. Confocal fluorescence microscopy showed that a fraction of HCF222-green fluorescent protein was detectable in the endoplasmic reticulum but that it also could be recognized in chloroplasts. A fusion construct of HCF222 containing a plastid transit peptide targets the protein into chloroplasts and was able to complement the mutational defect. These findings indicate that the chloroplast-targeted HCF222 is indispensable for the maturation and/or assembly of the Cytb6f complex and is very likely involved in thiol-disulfide biochemistry at the thylakoid membrane.
!~RES~! In an EMS-mutagenized population of Arabidopsis (ecotype Columbia-0 [Col-0]), we screened for mutants with an hcf phenotype. This phenotype is indicative for reduced photosynthetic performance of plants and can be the result of impaired thylakoid membrane biogenesis in chloroplasts (CITATION). In this screen, the mutant hcf222-1 was selected. Imaging of chlorophyll a fluorescence with a FluorCam system showed significantly increased steady-state fluorescence of hcf222-1 seedlings compared with the wild type (Fig. 1A). On Suc-supplemented medium, mutant growth was retarded slightly and leaves were paler than in the wild type (Fig. 1A). In contrast, under autotrophic conditions on Suc-free substrate, mutant seedlings showed severe growth retardation and leaves were much paler than in the wild type. After 3 weeks, hcf222-1 seedlings only developed two tiny rosette leaves compared with four to six leaves in the wild type (Fig. 1A). During cultivation on soil, mutant seedlings died after 4 to 5 weeks; thus, seeds can only be obtained from heterozygous plants. For all experiments, the progeny of heterozygous mutants were grown on 1% Suc-supplemented medium and mutants were selected by their hcf phenotype. [[FIGURE]] In order to examine the photosynthetic capacity of the mutant more closely, we measured chlorophyll fluorescence induction kinetics with 3-week-old intact plants. The maximum quantum efficiency of PSII photochemistry was comparable to that of the wild type in hcf222-1, indicating efficient PSII photochemistry (Fig. 1B; Table I). In contrast, fluorescence quenching in continuous actinic light was reduced drastically in the mutant (Fig. 1B), and the parameter qL, which reflects the fraction of oxidized QA in PSII reaction centers in continuous light, reached only 20% of the wild-type value in hcf222-1 (Table I). This behavior can be attributed to impaired electron transport capacities behind PSII, either due to defects in the Cytb6f complex or PSI or even both. Mean values for at least three plants are shown. Whole seedlings were measured with the following light intensities: 500-ms saturating light pulses, 5,000 μmol m−2 s−1; and 4 min of actinic light, 120 μmol m−2 s−1. Fv/Fm, Maximum quantum yield of PSII; ΦPSII, effective quantum yield of PSII; qL, fraction of open PSII centers; NPQ, nonphotochemical quenching. Student’s t test significance levels are as follows: *, P < 0.05; **, P < 0.01; and ***, P < 0.001. To differentiate between these alternatives, we studied the redox activity of the PSI reaction center by measuring the absorbance kinetics of P700 at 820 to 870 nm (Fig. 1C). In wild-type plants, P700 was reduced in the dark and became completely oxidized under illumination with far-red light, reflected by an increased absorbance. A similar absorbance increase was observed for hcf222-1, suggesting the integrity of PSI reaction centers. A saturating light pulse was able to reduce P700 in the wild type and in hcf222-1. However, in continuous actinic light, P700 was completely oxidized in the mutant, whereas the redox state of wild-type P700 equilibrates to a steady-state level, corresponding to a partly oxidized state (Fig. 1C). This behavior indicated the disruption of electron transport between PSII and PSI, thus pointing to a defect in the Cytb6f complex. To confirm that the observed phenotype of hcf222-1 is caused by a single nuclear mutation, we analyzed the segregation ratio of hcf mutants and the wild type in the progeny of heterozygous plants. In a representative analysis with 527 individuals, we found the expected mendelian 1:3 (mutants:wild type) ratio indicating a recessive, monogenic, nuclear mutation (Table II). Segregation of the hcf mutant phenotype was determined on Suc-supplemented medium. Segregation of antibiotic resistance was examined separately on sulfadiazine-containing medium. Numbers represent individual seedlings determined, and the percentage is given in parentheses. GK-038B09BC, Backcrossed T-DNA mutant. In order to map the hcf222 gene, heterozygous mutants were crossed to the ecotype Landsberg erecta (Ler), and a mapping population of 857 homozygous F2 mutant plants was genotyped using simple sequence length polymorphisms and cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequences as genetic markers. The mutated gene was mapped to a 35.8-kb fragment on the upper arm of chromosome 5 (Fig. 2A). Of the remaining 10 genes in this chromosomal region, all 10 were amplified in the mutant background and sequenced. Comparison of mutant and wild-type genomic sequences revealed a C-to-T transition in the first exon of the gene At5g15802 (nucleotide 98 of the reading frame), leading to an amino acid exchange from Ala-33 to Val in the mutant allele (Fig. 2B). [[FIGURE]] The importance of the identified gene At5g15802 for growth and photosynthesis of Arabidopsis seedlings was further examined using the T-DNA insertion line GK-038B09 from the GABI-Kat collection (CITATION), which possesses an insertion in the intron of At5g15802 between nucleotides 347 and 348 (Fig. 2B). As more than one T-DNA insertion was assumed for this mutant, a backcross with the wild type (Col-0) was performed to obtain a progeny containing a single insertion. Heterozygous F2 plants from this backcrossed line (GK-038B09BC) segregated pale green hcf mutants according to the typical mendelian ratio (Table II), revealing that the mutant phenotype results from inactivation of a single, recessive nuclear gene. A proportion of 21% sulfadiazine-sensitive seedlings in the F2 generation showed that only one T-DNA insertion exists in the mutant genome (Table II). In the progeny of the backcrossed T-DNA line, we found mutants with a more severe phenotype than that of the EMS mutant. Under heterotrophic growth conditions, mutants stayed very tiny and their leaves bleached much stronger than observed for hcf222-1 mutants (Fig. 1A). On Suc-free medium, seedlings appeared transparent and grew even slower (Fig. 1A). Due to the minimal chlorophyll content of the mutant hcf222-2, the steady-state fluorescence of leaves was increased only slightly compared with the wild type (Fig. 1A). Recording of fluorescence induction kinetics revealed a reduced maximum quantum efficiency of PSII photochemistry by 25%. Furthermore, there was more or less no fluorescence quenching in the light; thus, qL tends to 0 (Fig. 1B; Table I). The P700 absorbance resembled that of hcf222-1; however, a saturating light pulse in the far-red background was unable to reduce the reaction center of PSI (Fig. 1C). Altogether, these results indicate a severe defect in the Cytb6f complex as well as impaired PSII photochemistry in the T-DNA mutant. To verify that the identified gene is responsible for the phenotypic alterations in the two mutants hcf222-1 and GK-038B09BC, we introduced the wild-type cDNA of At5g15802 into heterozygous plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. To this end, we used the Gateway-based vector pAUL1 (CITATION), which confers a 35S promoter and the coding region for a C-terminal 27-amino acid-long triple hemagglutinin (HA) epitope tag to the cDNA. In the T2 progeny of transformed heterozygous plants from both mutants, we were able to identify seedlings that were homozygous for the hcf222-1 locus (five independent transformed plants) or the GK-038B09 T-DNA insertion (four independent transformed plants) but that grew like the wild type under autotrophic conditions (Supplemental Fig. S1). Measurement of chlorophyll a fluorescence revealed wild-type kinetics for the transformed lines hcf222-1cHCF222-HA and hcf222-2cHCF222-HA (Table I); consequently, the complemented phenotypes confirmed the identity of the gene HCF222 as the causal mutant gene in hcf222-1 and hcf222-2 and revealed that the At5g15802 cDNA encodes a functional protein. To examine the expression level of At5g15802 in the two mutants, real-time PCR was used to quantify the corresponding mRNA levels. In the EMS mutant, the corresponding transcript reached the wild-type level, whereas the T-DNA line lacked this mRNA (Fig. 2C). This demonstrates that the inserted T-DNA leads to a knockout of the gene At5g15802, corresponding to the more severe phenotype of this mutant allele. To address the question of whether the defect in photosynthetic electron transport of the mutants is based on reduced accumulation of thylakoid membrane protein complexes, levels of the major plastome- and nucleus-encoded components of PSII, the Cytb6f complex, PSI, and the ATP synthase were determined by immunoblot analyses (Fig. 3A). In both mutants, the most pronounced reduction was found for the levels of all four large Cytb6f subunits. However, the mutants differed in the degree of protein reduction. Whereas the EMS mutant hcf222-1 accumulated around 30% of the plastome-encoded cytochrome f, cytochrome b6, and PetD as well as nucleus-encoded Rieske protein, these subunits were around or even below the 10% level in the T-DNA mutant hcf222-2. Subunits of the core complex of PSII (plastid encoded: PsbB, PsbD, and PsbA) and PSI (plastid encoded: PsaA/B; nucleus encoded: PsaD and PsaF) reached wild-type levels in hcf222-1 but only ranged between 25% and 50% in the T-DNA line hcf222-2. Notably, nucleus-encoded subunits of the oxygen-evolving complex of PSII also showed diminished levels in the mutant hcf222-2 (PsbO, 50%; PsbP, 25%; and PsbQ, 30%; Fig. 3A). Ponceau Red staining of separated membrane proteins revealed a significant reduction of the LHCB complex in hcf222-2 (Fig. 3A). A specific antibody against LHCB1 detected wild-type amounts of this protein in hcf222-1, but only about 25% was detected in hcf222-2. The α-subunit of ATP synthase reached wild-type amounts or even somewhat higher levels in both mutants. [[FIGURE]] The observed reduction of nearly all tested photosynthetic proteins in hcf222-2 might be the consequence of a generally impaired protein synthesis rate in chloroplasts of this mutant. Besides membrane proteins, also soluble plastid proteins should be affected by this defect. Thus, we measured the amount of the large subunit of Rubisco as a soluble representative in whole cell extracts of the wild type and mutants (Fig. 3B). Normal accumulation of this abundant protein demonstrated that the reduction of the different thylakoid membrane proteins in hcf222-2 is not the consequence of a generally decreased synthesis rate of plastid proteins. Similar amounts of protein also were detected for the Rubisco small subunit in the wild type and mutants (Fig. 3B). Due to the strong deficiencies for the Cytb6f complex in hcf222-2, secondary effects based on damage through applied growth light cannot be excluded. To examine the extent of this effect, mutant seedlings were cultivated under dimmed light with the intensity of 5 to 10 µmol m−2 s−1. In order to get a more accurate quantitation of thylakoid membrane proteins in the T-DNA mutant, selected proteins were determined by immunoblot analyses of whole-cell proteins from both mutants. The obtained data showed that membrane proteins of PSII, PSI, the Cytb6f complex, and the LHCB complex are still reduced significantly in hcf222-2 (Fig. 3C); however, some of these proteins accumulate to slightly higher levels (30% LHCB1, 70% PsaD, and 40% PsbP) under dimmed light. The most severe reduction was again observed for the large subunits of the Cytb6f complex, which accumulated to around 10% (Fig. 3C). This indicated only minimal protein damage through applied light; thus, reduced protein levels of hcf222-2 are primarily the result of the mutation. In addition, this experiment showed that quantification of the protein levels in hcf222-2 is comparable in membrane and whole-cell protein fractions. Besides the integral membrane proteins and lumen-exposed, peripheral membrane proteins, we also tested the accumulation of FNR, which is exposed to the stroma. Like the α-subunit of the ATP synthase, FNR accumulated to wild-type levels in both mutants, indicating that the protein is unaffected by the strong reduction of the Cytb6f complex. Taken together, our results imply that the phenotype of the hcf222-1 mutant is attributable primarily to equally reduced steady-state levels of the large subunits of the Cytb6f complex. In the knockout mutant hcf222-2, levels of Cytb6f subunits were much more strongly reduced; moreover, the accumulation of PSII, LHCB, and PSI subunits was also significantly impaired. To address the question of whether the reduced protein levels are caused by reduced mRNA amounts, RNA gel-blot hybridization using probes against transcripts of the large Cytb6f proteins was performed with whole-leaf mRNA from hcf222-1. Compared with the wild type, we found no reduction or modified processing pattern for petA, petB, petD, and petC mRNAs in the mutant (Supplemental Fig. S2A). For the T-DNA mutant hcf222-2, we analyzed levels of several plastid- and nucleus-encoded mRNAs of thylakoid proteins by quantitative real-time PCR (Supplemental Fig. S2B). For the transcripts petA, petB, petD, and petC, differences between the wild type and hcf222-2 were within the normal fluctuation range. The same was observed for transcripts of PSI proteins (psaA, psaB, and psaD), the α-subunit of the ATP synthase (atpA), and the rbcL mRNA. The three PSII transcripts tested (psbA, psbB, and psbD) were reduced slightly, ranging from 60% to 80% of the wild-type levels. The amounts of the related proteins were around 30%; thus, it can be assumed that mRNA levels are not limiting for the synthesis of the corresponding proteins. As RNAs for the large Cytb6f subunits accumulate normally, reduced protein levels might be the consequence of reduced translation. Thus, we fractionated ribosome-bound leaf RNA of the wild type and mutants on Suc density gradients to analyze ribosomal loading of plastid-encoded RNAs for Cytb6f subunits. In both mutants, gel-blot hybridization with gene-specific probes revealed a distribution pattern for petB/D, petA, petG/L, petN, and the nucleus-encoded petC RNA that resembles the distribution in the wild type (Supplemental Fig. S3). Thus, we conclude that the low amounts of Cytb6f proteins in the two allelic mutants are not due to reduced mRNA levels or to reduced translational efficiency but are very likely a failure of a specific posttranslational modification that, in turn, leads to increased degradation of the affected proteins. The stability of proteins is determined, among other factors, by the correct association of their nonproteinaceous cofactors. Therefore, we examined covalently attached hemes in cytochrome f and b6 by the peroxidation of luminol, which results in chemiluminescence emission. In several heme attachment mutants of C. reinhardtii and Arabidopsis, heme was undetectable but apocytochromes accumulated to low amounts (CITATION; CITATION; CITATION). In addition, the migration of apocytochrome b6 is increased slightly compared with the holoform, leading to a band shift in heme cn-binding mutants (CITATION). Analysis of peroxidase activity in protein extracts of hcf222-1 revealed that the heme amount in cytochrome f corresponded to the level of the accumulating protein, indicating that remaining protein amounts represent holocytochrome f (Fig. 4A). In hcf222-2, anti-cytochrome f detected no protein band; hence, protein levels were significantly below 10%. In contrast, heme staining revealed about 10% heme. A closer look showed that the detected band was shifted slightly downward in all our heme-staining experiments (Fig. 4A; data not shown). Therefore, it is unlikely that this band represents holocytochrome f. It is possible that this is mitochondrial cytochrome c1, whose size is very similar to that of cytochrome f (CITATION) and that might be up-regulated in the mutant hcf222-2. For cytochrome b6 of hcf222-1, heme and protein levels reached around 20% (Fig. 4B). In the mutant hcf222-2, heme cn was below the detection limit and cytochrome b6 protein levels were around 6% (Fig. 4B). Although a direct comparison of heme and protein levels was not feasible for this mutant, a shift of the protein band, as can be expected for accumulating apocytochrome b6, was not visible. [[FIGURE]] Taken together, these results indicate that covalent heme attachment to cytochrome f and cytochrome b6 was not impaired in hcf222 mutants. The reading frame of HCF222 encodes a small protein of 99 amino acids that is characterized by eight conserved Cys residues arranged in two CxxCx7CxxC clusters (where x represents any amino acid; Fig. 5). The two Cys clusters show homology with the zinc-finger domain of E. coli chaperone DnaJ proteins. In this motif, two zinc atoms are coordinated between the Cys residues of four CxxC motifs, forming a loop structure (CITATION). In DnaJ proteins, the sequence CxxC is often followed by two conserved Gly residues (CxxCxGxG). In HCF222 only, in one of the four CxxC motifs, conserved Gly residues were found. Besides the Cys-rich zinc-finger motif, HCF222 contains no further known domains. [[FIGURE]] Phylogenetic analysis showed orthologs of HCF222 in land plants, but no related proteins were found in algae or cyanobacteria or in other taxa. The ortholog of HCF222 from Populus trichocarpa was assigned to a protein family designated as glutaredoxin-like proteins (CITATION). The designation glutaredoxin-like is merely based upon the existence of the CxxC motifs but no other similarities. In Arabidopsis, the protein family contains 15 members. The alignment of the amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis HCF222 with sequences from dicots, monocots, the primitive angiosperm Amborella trichopoda, and the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha revealed conservation for the regions comprising the CxxC motifs (Fig. 5). The highest similarity, of around 80% to 70%, was found between the N-terminal half of HCF222 (the first 42 amino acids) and its orthologs (Fig. 5; CITATION). Based on targeting predictions summarized in the SUBA3 database of Arabidopsis proteins (CITATION), the N terminus of HCF222 was identified to contain a signal peptide that directs the protein into the secretory pathway. The TargetP 1.1 program (CITATION) predicts the possible cleavage site between amino acids 24 and 25. The predicted cellular targets of the protein were inconsistent, varying between ER, Golgi, and the extracellular space, and also plastid localization was suggested, although with low confidence. To examine the localization of HCF222 in the cell, we analyzed the transient expression of HCF222 fused with GFP in Nicotiana benthamiana mesophyll cells. The full-length cDNA of HCF222 was cloned into the Gateway destination vector pGWB5, which provided a 35S promoter and a C-terminal GFP (CITATION). After infiltration of N. benthamiana leaves with transformed Agrobacterium tumefaciens, protoplasts were isolated and analyzed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Transient expression of HCF222-GFP for 72 h resulted in a fluorescence signal that labeled a net-like structure throughout the whole mesophyll protoplast (Fig. 6A). The pattern of HCF222-GFP fluorescence suggested that the fusion protein is partly located to the ER. Thus, we used the ER marker protein ER-mCherry (ER-rk) to label this cell compartment (CITATION). Figure 6B shows a clear overlap between ER-mCherry and HCF222-GFP fluorescence. In addition to the ER, GFP fluorescence also was detectable in chloroplasts; however, this fluorescence had a lower intensity but was visible in each chloroplast (Fig. 6A). To verify that the detected fluorescence in chloroplasts was caused by HCF222-GFP alone and not overlaid by chlorophyll autofluorescence, we recorded the fluorescence of wild-type protoplasts under the same microscope settings as for HCF222-GFP detection. Wild-type protoplasts showed no fluorescence emission in the GFP channel (Fig. 6C), confirming that the signal in chloroplasts of transformed leaves is caused by HCF222-GFP. To present a more quantitative picture of the detected HCF222-GFP fluorescence, we generated a fluorescence profile of Figure 6A reflecting signals in the ER and a chloroplast (Fig. 7A). The GFP profile of the first 4 µm revealed a peak of the mCherry profile, because the profile line passes through the ER. Inside the chloroplast, reflected by increased chlorophyll autofluorescence, mCherry fluorescence declined sharply to the basic level. The GFP profile line also declined, but only to an intermediate level, which is significantly above the basic level and which arises from the HCF222-GFP located inside the chloroplast (Fig. 7A). In contrast to the fusion protein, GFP without a target peptide showed fluorescence in the cytosol and no GFP signals inside the chloroplasts (Fig. 6D). Accordingly, the profile of GFP declined to a low level inside this cell compartment (Fig. 7B). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] To confirm the localization of HCF222, we repeated our studies with protoplasts from hcf222-2 mutants that stably expressed the HCF222-GFP fusion protein. The mutant phenotype of these transformed plants was restored, because all photosynthetic parameters were comparable to the wild type (Table I, plants designated hcf222-2cHCF222-GFP). This indicates that HCF222-GFP is functional and targeted correctly. GFP fluorescence in protoplasts from these lines resembled the distribution found in N. benthamiana protoplasts. In each chloroplast, GFP fluorescence was detectable, and partly net-like structures were visible in the cytosol (Fig. 6E). The fluorescence profile revealed a perfect correspondence between GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence on the left side of the selected chloroplast, whereas the GFP profile increased at the right margin, flanked by the ER (Fig. 7C). For comparison, we analyzed protoplasts from an Arabidopsis ER-GFP marker line, ER-gk (CITATION), which showed the typical interconnected ER membrane network but no fluorescence in the chloroplast compartment (Fig. 6F). Altogether, our analysis revealed that HCF222 is dually located to the ER and the chloroplast. Under the conditions we examined in N. benthamiana and Arabidopsis, only a minor fraction of the fusion protein is located to chloroplasts. The observed import into the ER compartment corresponds to the predicted N-terminal signal peptide of 24 amino acids in HCF222. As HCF222 is dually targeted, the question arises of which of the two locations is relevant for the observed mutational lesion. To be able to define the role of the chloroplast-located HCF222, we stably transformed the mutant hcf222-2 with a full-length HCF222 fusion protein that was provided with the chloroplast transit peptide (CTP) of the RbcS protein. This protein version should be able to restore the functional lesion in the chloroplast. We selected nine independent transformants that had a homozygous mutant background and were able to grow under photoautotrophic conditions (Supplemental Fig. S1). Analyses of chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics showed wild-type behavior for these transformed plants with respect to all fluorescence parameters tested (Table I, plants designated hcf222-2CTP-cHCF222-GFP). Detection of GFP fluorescence in leaf protoplasts confirmed the localization of the fusion protein CTP-HCF222-GFP inside chloroplasts (Fig. 6G). No further GFP signals outside the organelles could be visualized. The successful complementation strongly suggests that chloroplast targeting of HCF222 is sufficient to restore the mutational lesion, indicating that HCF222 is acting in this cell compartment during thylakoid membrane biogenesis. However, we cannot exclude that spurious amounts of HCF222 enter the ER or remain in the cytosol and contribute to complementation of the mutant phenotype. To obtain more information about HCF222, we isolated protein extracts from 3-week-old seedlings and detected HCF222-HA using an antibody against the C-terminal epitope tag. The immunoblot revealed a protein band around 15 kD exclusively in whole-cell protein extracts of the complemented line hcf222-1-cHCF222-HA and not in the wild type, indicating the specificity of the antibody to HCF222-HA (Fig. 8A). The segregation distance of the protein correlates roughly with the size of the full-length protein (10 kD) plus 3 kD for the triple HA tag. The nature of a faint band migrating below this major signal could be the result of a partial loss of the HA tag, as found for HA-tagged PsbH protein in a stably transformed Arabidopsis mutant (CITATION). When whole-cell proteins were separated into membrane and soluble proteins, HCF222 was found in the whole-cell membrane fraction and no fusion protein was detectable in the soluble fraction (Fig. 8A). We then tried to detect HCF222-HA in intact chloroplasts isolated from 6- to 8-week-old seedlings and separated on a Percoll gradient, but immunodetection with the anti-HA antibody gave no reproducible results because protein levels were at or below the detection limit (data not shown). To get a first insight into the membrane-binding capacity of HCF222, we isolated whole-cell membrane extracts from 3-week-old seedlings and treated the membranes with different salts and detergent (Supplemental Fig. S4). Removal of HCF222-HA from the membrane could only be achieved by detergent treatment, whereas sodium bromide had no effect and sodium thiocyanate extracted minor amounts of the protein. This suggests that HCF222 contains at least one hydrophobic helix, which anchors the protein in the membrane. The only hydrophobic stretch of the protein is located in the N terminus as part of the signal peptide (Fig. 5). The program TopPred 1.10 (CITATION) predicted this helix from amino acids 8 to 28 as a certain transmembrane helix (score 1,575). [[FIGURE]] HCF222 consists almost entirely of the zinc-finger domain of DnaJ proteins, as found for the chloroplast proteins LQY1 and PSA2. Based on this Cys-rich motif, thiol disulfide oxidoreductase activity was measured for each of these proteins (CITATION; CITATION). Therefore, we used the reductive insulin assay to determine a corresponding catalytic activity of HCF222. The assay is based on the reduction of two interchain disulfide bonds between the A and B chains of insulin by DTT (CITATION). The free B chain precipitates, and turbidity formation can be measured at 650 nm. Thioredoxin from E. coli accelerates disulfide reduction about 20-fold compared with the noncatalyzed reaction (CITATION). Recombinant HCF222 lacking the N-terminal 24 amino acids was produced in E. coli and purified by affinity chromatography on Ni-NTA columns via the attached C-terminal 6× His tag. As shown in Figure 8B, recombinant Δ24HCF222 significantly accelerated insulin reduction compared with the control reactions that contained either recombinant β-galactosidase, purified by the same procedure as HCF222, or DTT only. E. coli thioredoxin also catalyzed insulin reduction; however, the precipitation rates revealed that this enzyme is roughly 3 to 4 times more efficient than HCF222. This result demonstrated that purified, recombinant HCF222 has disulfide reductase activity, suggesting that HCF222 is required for dithiol-disulfide transactions in specific chloroplast-located target proteins.
!~MM~! The mutant hcf222-1 was selected from the M2 progeny of an EMS-treated Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) population (ecotype Col-0) due to its high chlorophyll fluorescence phenotype (CITATION). The mutants selected in this screen were named with the abbreviation hcf and a serial number starting with 100. In order to map the hcf222-1 gene, heterozygous mutants were crossed to the ecotype Ler, and selected F2 mutant plants were genotyped using simple sequence length polymorphisms and cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequences as genetic markers (CITATION; CITATION). The mutated gene was mapped to chromosome 5 between the markers SNP483168 (primers SNP483168-F/SNP483168-R; Supplemental Table S1; polymorphism HpyF3I site in Col-00) and SNP483268 (primers SNP483268-F/SNP483268-R; Supplemental Table S1; polymorphism Eam1104I site in Ler). Of the remaining 10 genes in this chromosomal region, all 10 were amplified in the mutant background and sequenced to identify mutations in their coding regions. The T-DNA mutant line GK_038B09 was generated in the context of the GABI-Kat program (CITATION) and obtained from the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (N403573). For mutant selection, surface-sterilized seeds were sown on petri dishes containing 0.3% (w/v) solidified gelrite supplemented with one-half-strength Murashige and Skoog nutrients (CITATION) and 1% (w/v) Suc. During the day, seedlings were illuminated at a photon flux density (PFD) of 40 to 60 μmol m−2 s−1 with a 16-h photoperiod and 23°C. To minimize secondary effects of light, mutants were cultivated under dim light with an intensity of 8 to 10 μmol m−2 s−1. Alternatively, plants were cultivated on soil in a growth chamber operating at a 16-h-light/8-h-dark period with a constant temperature of 23°C. For seed collection, the Arasystem (Betatech; http://www.gelifesciences.com) was used. For a first complementation analysis of the hcf222 mutant phenotype, a construct consisting of the At5g15802 open reading frame and the 5′ untranslated region was created in the Gateway vector system pAUL1 (CITATION). The HCF222 cDNA was amplified by PCR with the primers 5-5802att-B1 and 5-5802att-B2 (Supplemental Table S1) using wild-type cDNA as a template. To create the entry clone pENTRY-HCF222, a BP Clonase reaction (Invitrogen) between the HCF222 PCR product and the donor vector pDONR221 was performed according to the Gateway manual. pENTRY-HCF222 was subjected to sequence analysis. By performing an LR Clonase reaction (Invitrogen) with this entry clone, HCF222 was introduced into various binary T-DNA destination vectors. The created expression clones were transferred to heterozygous hcf222-1 and hcf222-2 plants by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation according to the floral dip method (CITATION). To determine the genotype of transformed plants and their progeny, a single-nucleotide polymorphism marker was created (SNP15802) based on the loss of an Fnu4HI site in the mutant allele (primers 5-5802-4.1F/5-5802-4R (Supplemental Table S1). To create the HCF222-GFP fusion constructs, the destination vector pGWB5 (CITATION) was used. For construction of the synthetic fusion product RbcS-TP-cHCF222-GFP, the rbcS-TP cDNA was amplified by PCR with the primers rbcS-att-B1 and R-rbcS(BamHI) (Supplemental Table S1). The cDNA of HCF222 was amplified with the primers F-5-5802(BamHI) and 5-5802att-B2 (Supplemental Table S1). Both PCR products were fused via their BamHI sites, inserted into the donor vector pDONR221 (Thermo) by Gateway cloning, and finally introduced into pGWB5. Chlorophyll fluorescence and P700 absorbance measurements were performed as described (CITATION) with the following modifications. Saturating light pulses had a length of 500 ms and a PFD of 5,000 μmol m−2 s−1, and actinic light had a PFD of 120 μmol m−2 s−1. Plants grown under dimmed light (5–10 µmol m−2 s−1) were measured with actinic light of 30 μmol m−2 s−1. The parameter qL was determined according to CITATION as qL = (Fm′ − F′/Fm′)(Fo/F′). The steady-state fluorescence of 3-week-old seedlings was visualized with a FluorCam 800MF (Photon Systems Instruments) controlled by the software package FluorCam 6. To isolate whole-leaf membrane proteins, leaves from wild-type and mutant plants were ground in liquid nitrogen and the cell powder was homogenized in ice-cold lysis buffer (50 mm Tris-HCl, pH 8, 10 mm EDTA, 2 mm EGTA, and 10 mm DTT). The protein extract was filtered through Miracloth and centrifuged for 20 min at 4°C and 16,000g. For total leaf protein extracts, the amount of lysis buffer was reduced to 4 mL g−1 leaf fresh weight and filtered to glass wool placed in the tip of a syringe. Protein extracts were separated by SDS-PAGE (CITATION) and subsequently used for immunoblotting as described (CITATION). To analyze the strength of the membrane association of HCF222, whole-leaf membrane fractions were resuspended in 50 mm HEPES/KOH, pH 7.5, or HEPES buffer supplemented with 2 m NaBr, 2 m NaSCN, or 1% (w/v) octyl-β-d-glucopyranoside. Membranes were centrifuged for 20 min at 4°C and 24,000g. Supernatants were precipitated with 15% (w/v) TCA. Resuspended samples were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed with specific antisera. Antibodies used for the immunodetection of specific thylakoid membrane proteins were as described (CITATION; CITATION) or purchased from Agrisera (anti-PetB [AS03034], anti-LHCB1 [AS09522], anti-RbcL [AS03037], and anti-RbcS [AS07259]). To detect covalently bound heme in cytochrome f and b6, leaf membrane proteins were isolated in lysis buffer as described above. Subsequently, protein extracts were separated directly by SDS-PAGE and blotted to nitrocellulose membranes. The dry membrane was incubated with the high-sensitivity enhanced chemiluminescence substrate Super Signal West Femto (Thermo) and exposed for 2 to 10 min in the image analyzer LAS 4000 (Fujifilm). Isolation of total leaf RNA, electrophoresis, gel-blot analysis, and hybridization were performed according to CITATION. The specific RNA probes used for hybridization are listed by CITATION. For real-time PCR, RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis rosette leaves using the Plant RNA MiniPrep Kit (Zymo Research) and reverse transcribed with the QuantiTect Reverse Transcription Kit (Qiagen). Quantitative PCR was carried out on a 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR system with SYBR Green PCR master mix (Applied Biosystems). Primers used to quantify HCF222 transcript levels and various transcripts of photosynthetic genes are listed in Supplemental Table S1. Transcript levels of actin were used as a reference. Polysomal fractions of RNA were isolated as described (CITATION). For the detection of RNAs, we used the protocol cited above. Probes against petG, petL, and petN were described (CITATION). A cDNA fragment of HCF222 comprising amino acids 25 to 99 was amplified by the PCR primers P2-HCF222-F and P2-HCF222-R (Supplemental Table S1). This cDNA encoded a truncated protein lacking the predicted 24-amino acid-long signal peptide of HCF222 (Δ24HCF222). The cleaved DNA fragment (BamHI and XhoI underlined in the primer sequence) was cloned into the expression vector pET-21a(+) (Novagen) and transformed into Escherichia coli Rosetta 2 (DE3) (Novagen). The protein was expressed under standard conditions (37°C, induction with 0.5 mm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside, 3 h of expression). A C-terminal 6× His tag enabled the purification of the protein by metal chelate affinity chromatography on Ni-NTA resin under native conditions according to the QIAexpressionist protocol (Qiagen). For the purification of preparative protein amounts, His GraviTrap columns (GE Healthcare) were used. Isolated amounts of HCF222 were determined by comparison with a dilution series of lysozyme after SDS-PAGE. To measure the disulfide reductase activity of HCF222, the insulin precipitation assay was conducted (CITATION). The reaction contained 100 mm sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7), 1 mm EDTA, 0.17 mm insulin (Sigma-Aldrich), 0.35 mm DTT, and either 3 µm E. coli thioredoxin, ∼3 µm Δ24HCF222, or an equivalent volume of β-galactosidase-6xHis (∼1 µm), which was isolated from E. coli extracts under the same conditions as Δ24HCF222. The assay was started by the addition of DTT, and precipitation of the insulin B chain was measured spectrophotometrically at 650 nm. β-Galactosidase was used as a control to monitor the possible impact of contaminating proteins from E. coli during enzyme measurements. Disulfide reduction also was measured under conditions without enzyme (DTT control). Transformation of N. benthamiana and preparation of protoplasts from infiltrated leaf discs were performed as described (CITATION). N. benthamiana plants were 4 to 5 weeks old, but only youngest leaves were used for infiltration. Images of GFP or mCherry fluorescence were taken 48 to 72 h after infiltration. Protoplasts were analyzed using a Leica TCS SP8 STED 3X confocal laser scanning microscope (Leica Microsystems). GFP and chlorophyll were excited with the 488-nm laser line of an argon laser. Emission of GFP was detected between 491 and 533 nm and chlorophyll autofluorescence between 620 and 670 nm. Under these settings, discrimination between GFP and chlorophyll fluorescence was possible, and faint GFP fluorescence of chloroplasts could be collected with high sensitivity. The ER marker mCherry HDEL (CITATION) was excited at 561 nm, and emission was collected at 575 to 615 nm. Images were taken using a 40× water-immersion objective and 12-bit resolution. All images were produced with a pinhole of 1 Airy unit to ensure perfect confocality. Image processing was performed with the software package LAS X (Leica Microsystems). Sequence data from this article can be found in the Arabidopsis Genome Initiative, the Maize Genetics and Genomics, or the GenBank/EMBL databases under the following accession numbers: Arabidopsis thaliana HCF222 (At5g15802) Tarenaya hassleriana HCF222 (XP_010549962.1), Vitis vinifera HCF222 (XP_003634726.1), Zea mays GRMZM2G145527-P02 (AFW79256), Z. mays GRMZM2G145527-P01 (AFW79255), Populus trichocarpa HCF222 (XP_006373394.1), Oryza sativa japonica group HCF222 (XP_015629048.1), Sorghum bicolor HCF222 SORBIDRAFT_01g032530 (XP_002465131.1), S. bicolor HCF222 SORBI_009G237800 (KXG22558), Amborella trichopoda HCF222 (XP_006846238.1), and Marchantia polymorpha HCF222 (OAE31695). The following supplemental materials are available. Supplemental Figure S1. Complementation analysis of hcf222 mutants. Supplemental Figure S2. Accumulation of RNAs for photosynthetic proteins in the wild type and hcf222 mutants. Supplemental Figure S3. Polysome association of plastid- and nucleus-encoded Cytb6f RNAs. Supplemental Figure S4. Membrane binding of HCF222. Supplemental Figure S5. Expression of HCF222 in different tissues and developmental stages of Arabidopsis. Supplemental Figure S6. HCF222 homologs from maize and sorghum. Supplemental Table S1. Sequences of primers used for PCR.
