!~ABS~! Arabidopsis COP9 is a component of a large protein complex that is essential for the light control of a developmental switch and whose conformation or size is modulated by light. The complex is acidic, binds heparin, and is localized within the nucleus. Biochemical purification of the complex to near homogeneity revealed that it contains 12 distinct subunits. One of the other subunits is COP11, mutations in which result in a phenotype identical to cop9 mutants. The COP9 complex may act to regulate the nuclear abundance of COP1, an established repressor of photomorphogenic development. During the biogenesis of the COP9 complex, a certain degree of prior subunit association is a prerequisite for proper nuclear translocation. Since both COP9 and COP11 have closely related human counterparts, the COP9 complex probably represents a conserved developmental regulator in higher eukaryotes.
!~RES~! In our evaluation of the proper tissue type for the biochemical purification of the COP9 complex, we noted that young Arabidopsis flower buds had the highest cellular content of COP9 (data not shown). Owing to the practical limitation of Arabidopsis flower tissue, heads of Brassica oleracea L. (cauliflower), a member of the same Brassica family as Arabidopsis, which are comprised primarily of young flower tissue and are abundantly available, were chosen for the complex purification. Western blot analysis of cauliflower head extracts revealed a protein of identical mobility to Arabidopsis COP9, which was present in highest amounts among all tissue types examined (data not shown). Further size fractionation of the soluble protein extracts indicated that the cauliflower COP9 elution profile is identical to that of Arabidopsis, with a single peak around 560 kDa and devoid of any monomeric form. Quantitative Western blot analysis indicated that COP9 in total cauliflower head protein extracts represents approximately 0.01% of total soluble protein. Assuming one COP9 subunit (22 kDa) per complex (560 kDa), only about 400-fold enrichment is necessary to purify the COP9 complex completely. By monitoring the presence of COP9 through Western blot assay, the COP9 complex was purified from cauliflower head extracts through an empirically determined purification scheme (see CITATION Experimental Procedures). Several properties of the complex are evident from the purification procedure. The complex is acidic, binding a quaternary ammonium (Q) anion exchange column at pH 5.7. The complex has affinity for heparin, a highly sulfated glycosaminoglycan with the ability to bind nucleic acid–binding proteins. The complex elutes in the final step as a single gel filtration peak of 560 kDa (CITATIONA), indicating that the purified product has retained its original dimensions. To examine the physical homogeneity and dimensions of the purified COP9 complex, the COP9 complex containing fraction (peak II in CITATIONA) was subjected to negative staining with uranyl acetate and examined by transmission electron microscopy. As illustrated in CITATIONB, the purified COP9 complexes appear as uniform spherical particles of approximately 12 nm diameter, consistent with the predicted molecular mass of about 560 kDa. Portions of the gel filtration fractions (CITATIONA) were separated by SDS–polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS–PAGE) and visualized by silver staining. As shown in CITATIONC, a total of 15 major stained bands were found in the COP9-containing fraction corresponding to the center of the major peak (II) in the elution profile (CITATIONA) and were marked according to their apparent molecular mass. One of the proteins, p22, strongly reacts with anti-COP9 antibodies (CITATIONC). Furthermore, a 23 amino acid internal peptide (LWTRDYAGVYEAIRGFDWSQDAK) from p22 was sequenced and found to be identical to residues 86–108 of Arabidopsis COP9 in 20 of the 23 residues (CITATION). Thus, it definitively confirmed p22 as cauliflower COP9. To test whether COP11 is present in the purified COP9 complex, we probed a protein blot with the above peak II with COP11-specific antibodies. As shown in CITATIONC, the COP11 antibodies strongly react with both p52 and p50. To confirm the identity of p52 and p50 as COP11, two contiguous internal peptides from p52 and one internal peptide from p50 were sequenced and found to be 100% identical to residues 381–416 (for p52) and 401–416 (for p50) of Arabidopsis COP11 (data not shown; CITATION). Since both p22/COP9 and p52/p50/COP11 were equally enriched during each step of the purification (CITATION) and are present in similar molar ratios in the purified complex (CITATION), we conclude that COP11 is a subunit of the COP9 complex and not simply a result of serendipitous copurification with COP9. This conclusion was further confirmed by our observation that in Arabidopsis seedlings, COP11 cofractionated with COP9 in the same high molecular mass fractions and they coimmunoprecipitated together (J. M. S. and X.-W. D., unpublished data). The fact that COP11 is a component of the COP9 complex not only clarifies our previous genetic prediction, but further confirms that we have succeeded in purifying the COP9 complex. Since p50 and p52 are present in submolar levels compared with COP9 and the other subunits (see below and CITATION) and the relative amounts of the p50 and p52 were quite variable during purification, the presence of two COP11 species is likely a consequence of the purification procedure. Several lines of evidence indicate that the COP9 complex has been purified and that the major protein components copurified with COP9 are the subunits of the complex. First, the overall fold of enrichment for COP9 (CITATION) is similar to that predicted for purification of the COP9 complex, assuming one COP9 molecule per complex. Second, both COP9 and COP11 were equally enriched throughout the purification scheme (CITATION). Third, modifications of the purification scheme affected the yield, but not the composition, of the purified complex (data not shown). Fourth, the complex was purified in moderately high ionic strength (up to 0.6 M) and also is stable under 4 M urea (data not shown), conditions that do not favor nonspecific aggregation. Fifth, the uniform negatively stained particles of correct dimensions seen in the COP9 fraction are consistent with the complex being the major species. To determine the subunit composition of the purified complex, the identity of the 15 intensely stained protein bands shown in CITATIONC and their relative molar amounts were analyzed. The identities of the protein bands in the purified complex were analyzed by their proteinase (Achromobacter protease I and trypsin)-digested peptide profile. Two protein bands, p36 and p39, contain less than 10% of the protein found in the other bands and thus were not suitable for accurate analysis. This is consistent with our observation that these two proteins were barely detectable in the Coomassie blue–stained preparative SDS–PAGE of the purified complex used for purifying the individual proteins for peptide sequencing. It is likely that these two bands are minor contaminating proteins that are hypersensitive to silver staining and are not subunits of the COP9 complex. The peptide profile from 11 of the other 13 protein bands were unique (CITATION). As expected, the profile for p52 and p50, which both represent COP11, were similar. Therefore, there are likely a total of 12 distinct protein subunits in the complex. To reveal the molar ratios of the 12 distinct subunits, the molar amounts of each protein relative to COP9 in the purified complex were analyzed by two different methods (see CITATION legend). Except for p90, for which we still have not obtained a peptide sequence and are thus unable to determine the molar content accurately, the relative molar amounts of the remaining protein subunits were determined (CITATION). Of the protein bands analyzed (including COP9), 10 were found in approximately equal molar amounts (ranging from 0.7 to 1.4 M when compared with COP9). The two COP11 bands, p52 and p50, each had approximately half the molar amount of COP9. Therefore, p52 and p50 represent heterogenous forms of the same protein subunit, COP11, while the other 11 major protein components represent distinct subunits. Together, our results suggest that the purified COP9 complex contains 12 distinct subunits, including COP9 and COP11, and each subunit is present in a 1:1 molar ratio. The predicted total molecular mass of the COP9 complex is 550 kDa, very close to the 560 kDa molecular mass revealed by the gel filtration analysis of the complex. Based on the β-glucuronidase–COP1 (GUS–COP1) fusion gene studies, it was proposed that COP1 acts inside the nucleus to suppress photomorphogenic development in darkness, while light inactivation resulted in a nuclear exclusion of COP1 (CITATION). To test whether the COP9 complex plays a role in the light-regulated subcellular localization of COP1, we introduced the biologically active GUS–COP1 translational fusion transgene into the cop9 mutant background by standard genetic crosses and examined its subcellular localization by GUS activity staining. In cop9 mutants grown in darkness, GUS–COP1 fails to enrich in the nuclei of hypocotyl cells (CITATION). This suggests that COP9 is required for proper COP1 nuclear localization in the dark. As a GUS–NIa fusion protein (CITATION) properly localizes to the nucleus in both dark- and light-grown cop9 plants, the effect of the cop9 mutation on GUS–COP1 localization is specific and not an artifact of defective general nuclear transport (CITATION). Similar results were also obtained for the subcellular localization of GUS–COP1 in cop8 and cop11 mutants (data not shown), both of which fail to accumulate the COP9 complex. Therefore, we conclude that the COP9 complex plays a specific role in either the nuclear localization or nuclear retention of COP1 in darkness. This functional interaction would be consistent with the similar pleiotropic photomorphogenic phenotypes in the cop1, cop9, and cop11 mutants. As a necessary step to understand the cellular basis of COP9 complex function and its role in regulating COP1 nuclear abundance, we examined the subcellular localization of COP9. As all detectable COP9 is present in the complexed form, the subcellular localization pattern of COP9 is expected to be identical to that of the COP9 complex. Indirect immunofluorescence staining (CITATION) of COP9 in protoplasts isolated from cauliflower seedlings (CITATIONA, red) indicated a nuclear localization, which overlaps with nucleus DNA staining of 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) (CITATIONB), while the staining signal derived from the anti-tubulin antibody (CITATIONA, green) exhibited the expected cytoplasmic localization, which was excluded from both the nucleus and vacuole. To substantiate this observation, a GUS–COP9 translational gene fusion, under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, was introduced into Arabidopsis through Agrobacterium-mediated stable transformation. The subcellular localization of the GUS–COP9 fusion protein was examined by GUS activity staining of both light- and dark-grown seedlings. Consistent with the protoplast immunofluorescence staining pattern of endogenous COP9 in cauliflower, nuclear localization of GUS–COP9 in the young root cells was observed in both light- and dark-grown seedlings (CITATIONC and CITATIOND). This GUS staining pattern is very similar to that of the known nuclear localized GUS–NIa fusion protein (CITATIONF; CITATION). While GUS itself is clearly cytoplasmic in transgenic plants, as expected, it was evident that COP9 was able to bring an otherwise cytoplasmic localized GUS protein into the nucleus as a GUS–COP9 fusion protein. While GUS–COP9 was translocated into the nucleus in transgenic Arabidopsis (CITATION), the COP9 sequences do not contain any conserved nuclear translocation signal. This raises the possibility that GUS–COP9 nuclear translocation may require either some degree of the COP9 complex assembly or the function of other pleiotropic COP/DET/FUS genes. To test this, we introduced the GUS–COP9 fusion transgene into six pleiotropic cop/det mutant backgrounds by genetic crosses and analyzed the cellular GUS activity staining patterns of young root cells (CITATION). In cop1, det1, cop9, and cop10 mutants, GUS–COP9 exhibited a nuclear staining pattern identical to that of wild type (CITATIONA). In cop8 and cop11, however, the GUS–COP9 staining pattern was cytoplasmic (CITATIONE and CITATIONF), indicating that GUS–COP9 can no longer localize to the nucleus in these strains. Since GUS–NIa was able to localize to the nuclei in root cells of both cop8 and cop11 mutants (CITATIONG and CITATIONH), it is clear that these mutants are not defective in general nuclear translocation. Therefore, the effects of cop8 and cop11 mutations are specific for GUS–COP9. Since COP11, and probably COP8, are components of the COP9 complex, the above result indicates that some degree of preassembly of the COP9 complex is essential for its nuclear translocation.
!~MM~! All steps were carried out at 4°C. Cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. Botrytis) heads were purchased from local markets. Apical tissue from cauliflower heads (approximately the top 3–7 mm surface layer), comprised primarily of floral and inflorescence meristems, was collected and passed twice through a Champion juicer (Plastaket Manufacturing Co.) with constant addition of extraction buffer (200 mM NaCl and 0.5 mM PMSF at 100 ml per 100 g in buffer A, which contains the following: 50 mM NaHPO4 [pH 7.0], 10 mM MgCl2, 5 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 10% glycerol). After filtration through four layers of cheesecloth and four layers of Miracloth (Calbiochem), insoluble cell debris was pelleted at 13,000 × g for 90 min. The supernatant was carefully poured over a 10 cm long 2.5 cm diameter glass wool–filled column, and the flowthrough was collected. This was applied to a 600 ml Q Sepharose Fast Flow column (Pharmacia), equilibrated in buffer A with 200 mM NaCl. Following a wash in buffer A with 200 mM NaCl, COP9 was eluted in 500 mM NaCl in buffer A. The eluate was diluted with equal volume buffer B (20 mM bis-Tris propane [pH 7.0], 10 mM MgCl2, 0.5 mM PMSF, 5 mM β-mercaptoethanol, 10% glycerol) and buffer exchanged to buffer B, and the sample was concentrated to 150 ml by diafiltration over a 300 kDa Ultrasette (Filtron). The retentate from the diafiltration was cleared by centrifugation at 45,000 × g and applied to a 60 ml Q Sepharose HP column (Pharmacia) equilibrated in buffer B. COP9 was eluted in a linear gradient of 0–500 mM NaCl in buffer B. COP9-containing fractions were pooled, diluted with equal volume buffer B, and applied to a 5 ml HiTrap heparin column (Pharmacia) equilibrated in buffer B. The complex was eluted with 600 mM NaCl in buffer B. The heparin eluate was diluted 1× in buffer C (20 mM bis-Tris [pH 5.7], 10 mM MgCl2, 10% glycerol) and diafiltered twice on a 100 kDa Macrosep (Filtron). The retentate was applied to a Mono Q HR5/5 column (Pharmacia) equilibrated in buffer C, and COP9 was eluted as the major peak in a linear gradient of 130–350 mM NaCl in buffer C. The COP9-containing fractions were pooled and concentrated to 100 μl on a 100 kDa Microsep (Filtron) and applied to Superose 6 HR10/30 column (Pharmacia) equilibrated in buffer D (50 mM NaHPO4 [pH 7.4], 10 mM MgCl2, 150 mM NaCl, 10% glycerol). The COP9 complex was collected as a single peak eluting at 560 kDa. The purified COP9 complex was separated on a 10%–12.5% polyacrylamide gel and stained for 30 min in 50% methanol, 10% acetic acid, 0.1% Coomassie blue. Following destaining in 50% methanol, 10% acetic acid for 3 hr, individual protein bands were excised with a razor blade. Prior to proteolytic digestion, 10% of several of the excised bands was hydrolyzed, the amino acids were separated on a Beckman 7300 HPLC, and the total protein content was estimated. The gel slices were digested in gel with either Achromobacter protease I or trypsin. After complete enzymatic digestion, peptides were separated by reverse-phase HPLC, and thus a profile could be obtained. Individual peptides were analyzed for purity and amount by matrix-assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF) (Bruker). The peptides chosen were sequenced on an ABI 477A peptide-sequencing instrument. From the peptide amount and its exact amino acid sequence, its molar amount was calculated. The purified complex from peak II was negatively stained on a glow-discharged Formvar grid with 3% (w/v) uranyl acetate. The negatively stained sample was examined by electron microscopy in a Zeiss EM-10 electron microscope at a magnification of 160,000×. Protoplasts were prepared according to CITATION. The primary antibodies used in this work were as follows: affinity-purified rabbit polyclonal antibodies against COP9 at 1:200; monoclonal anti-α-tubulin antibody from mouse ascites fluid (clone DM 1A; Sigma) at 1:400; and Y12. Secondary antibodies were fluorescein-conjugated anti-mouse (Molecular Probes) or Cy3-conjugated anti-rabbit (Sigma). Plant tissue homogenization, analytic gel filtration analysis, and immunoblot analysis of total protein extract were according to CITATION. The COP11 antibodies were raised against the E. coli–expressed Arabidopsis COP11 and affinity purified (J. M. S. and X.-W. D., unpublished data). The GUS–COP9 fusion gene was constructed by ligating a 0.7 kb BamHI fragment containing the entire COP9 cDNA to a BglII–BamHI-cut pRTL-2-GUS-NIaΔBam plasmid. Transgenic plants were generated and analyzed as described previously for GUS–COP1 (CITATION). The cop9-1, cop8-1, cop10-1, and cop11-1 mutants are in Wassilewskija background (CITATION), while cop1-4 and det1-1 are in COL-O ecotype (CITATION). Unless otherwise specified, all transgenic and wild-type plants are in No-O ecotype. Plant germination and growth conditions in darkness and white light were as described previously (CITATION). Light/dark cycle conditions of 16 hr of white light at 75 mmol m−2 s−1 and 8 hr of darkness was used for light-grown seedlings. ‡ Present address: Department of Botany, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv 69978, Israel. § Present address: Department of Botany, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee, 37996.
