!~ABS~! Mutations in the Arabidopsis ETHYLENE-INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) gene severely limit a plant's response to the gaseous hormone ethylene. ein3 mutants show a loss of ethylene-mediated effects including gene expression, the triple response, cell growth inhibition, and accelerated senescence. EIN3 acts downstream of the histidine kinase ethylene receptor, ETR1, and the Raf-like kinase, CTR1. The EIN3 gene encodes a novel nuclear-localized protein that shares sequence similarity, structural features, and genetic function with three EIN3-LIKE (EIL) proteins. In addition to EIN3, EIL1 or EIL2 were able to complement ein3, suggesting their participation in the ethylene signaling pathway. Overexpression of EIN3 or EIL1 in wild-type or ethylene-insensitive2 plants conferred constitutive ethylene phenotypes, indicating their sufficiency for activation of the pathway in the absence of ethylene.
!~RES~! The EIN3 locus is one of five novel ethylene-insensitive (Ein−) complementation groups identified as a result of a large scale screen for ethylene response mutants in Arabidopsis (CITATION). Mutations at the EIN3 locus confer insensitivity to high levels of exogenous and endogenous ethylene (CITATION). Preliminary characterization of a single ein3 mutant allele (ein3-1) indicated that the full activity of this gene was required for ethylene responsiveness in both seedling and adult plant tissues, suggesting a central role for EIN3 in the ethylene signaling pathway (CITATION). To aid in our investigation of the function of this gene, additional ein3 mutants were identified and further characterized through genetic analysis. Three-day-old ethylene-treated etiolated seedlings from pools of ethylmethanesulfonate (EMS), diepoxybutane (DEB), and X-ray-mutagenized M2 seeds were screened for individuals that failed to display the triple response. A collection of 5,000 T-DNA insertion lines (CITATION) was also screened for ethylene-insensitive mutants. Based on complementation tests, two new ein3 mutants were identified: ein3-2, a T-DNA insertion allele, and ein3-3, a DEB-induced mutation. Each of the three ein3 mutations are fully recessive (data not shown). ein3 was mapped to the top portion of chromosome three between the gl1 and hy2 mutations, 7.5 ± 3.0 cM south of hy2 (Roman et al., 1995 and data not shown). ein3 mutants were selected on the basis of their insensitivity to ethylene-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl and root elongation. ein3 seedlings grown in the presence of ethylene failed to display the triple response and resembled control, air-treated wild-type seedlings (CITATIONA). Although each of the three ein3 mutant alleles displayed a much reduced sensitivity to high levels of exogenous ethylene, the phenotypes of these plants were less severe than those of other ethylene insensitive mutants, such as ein2-1 (CITATIONA). When grown in the presence of exogenous ethylene, the rosette leaves of adult wild-type plants were much smaller than those of untreated plants and similar to those of the ctr1 mutant (CITATIONB), which is due to the reduction of leaf epidermal cell size (CITATION). In contrast, the rosette leaves of ethylene-treated ein3 mutants remained largely insensitive to treatment with exogenous ethylene (CITATIONB). The reduced effect of ethylene on the size of rosette leaves indicated that EIN3 is required for ethylene responsiveness in adult plant tissues. However, consistent with the phenotype observed in seedlings, rosette leaves of ein3 plants showed greater cell growth inhibition in response to ethylene than other ethylene-insensitive mutants, such as ein2 or etr1 (CITATIONB). Leaf senescence, as measured by chlorophyll loss in excised leaves, is induced by exposure to ethylene and is a sensitive assay of the plant's responsiveness to ethylene (CITATION). To examine whether this response was affected in the ein3 mutants, chlorophyll content was measured in leaves from wild-type and ethylene-insensitive mutant plants after treatment in air or ethylene. In wild-type plants, total chlorophyll in ethylene-treated leaves was reduced to approximately 15% of the chlorophyll level remaining in the air-treated leaves (CITATION). The chlorophyll content of ein3-1 and etr1-3 leaves in ethylene was reduced slightly relative to leaves in air. In the ein2-1 mutant, a strong allele of ein2 (CITATION), no significant reduction in chlorophyll levels was observed after ethylene treatment. In a previous study, ethylene-induced chlorophyll loss was not detected in the etr1-1 plants (CITATION). The apparent discrepancy may reflect a technical difference in the assay or, more likely, the presence of distinct ethylene responses displayed by these two alleles of etr1 (CITATION). To examine the effects of the ein3 mutation on ethylene-dependent processes at the molecular level, the expression of several ethylene-regulated genes was examined in the mutants. The steady-state level of mRNA for EI305 (CITATION) and GST2, a glutathione S–transferase gene (CITATION), increases significantly in Arabidopsis tissues after treatment with exogenous ethylene. Northern blot analysis was carried out using RNAs isolated from seedlings of wild-type and several ein3 mutant alleles, grown in purified air or in the presence of exogenous ethylene. The basal and induced level of accumulation of RNA for each of these ethylene-induced genes was significantly reduced in ein3 seedlings, compared to the wild type (CITATION). Similar results have also been reported for adult ein3 mutants using alternative gene probes (CITATION). To further elucidate the role of EIN3 in the ethylene signaling pathway, cloning of the gene was initiated using a T-DNA insertion allele, ein3-2. Complete linkage of a T-DNA marker gene conferring kanamycin resistance (NPTII), and the Ein− phenotype were observed in over 400 T4-generation segregating families (data not shown), indicating the strong likelihood of an insertion of the T-DNA at, or very close to, the EIN3 gene. To isolate a portion of the candidate EIN3 gene from ein3-2, a 1.8 kb fragment of plant DNA flanking the left border of the T-DNA insert was isolated from ein3-2 genomic DNA by plasmid rescue (CITATION). Using this plasmid (p1C6) as a probe, homologous DNA sequences were isolated from a wild-type genomic DNA library. Three overlapping lambda clones (λ2E6, λ2E12, and λ4A1) that possessed similar restriction enzyme maps were obtained. An etiolated seedling cDNA library (CITATION) was also screened with p1C6, and 28 clones, representing two distinct cDNA classes, were isolated. The first group, referred to as the EIN3 class, was composed of 18 clones that shared similar restriction fragments with each of the three lambda genomic clones and p1C6. The remaining 10 cDNAs belonged to a related class, referred to as the EIL1 (EIN3-LIKE1) class, which hybridized to EIN3, but possessed a unique restriction map. Southern blot analysis of ein3-2 DNA confirmed that the EIN3 locus was disrupted by the T-DNA insertion; polymorphisms were observed between wild type and ein3-2 when hybridized to pCD3, one of the putative EIN3 cDNAs (data not shown). Genetic linkage analysis revealed that probes from this region mapped in close proximity to the location on chromosome 3 of the ein3 mutation (E. Matallana and J. R. E, unpublished data), providing further evidence that DNA from this region contained the EIN3 gene. Northern blot analysis of RNA isolated from wild-type seedlings revealed that pCD3 hybridized to a single major transcript of approximately 2.3 kb, comparable in size to the longest candidate EIN3 cDNAs. The steady-state level of this mRNA was unaffected by the application of exogenous ethylene, was greatly reduced in ein3-1 (a nonsense mutation), and was undetectable in the T-DNA insertion mutant ein3-2—a further indication that pCD3 was an EIN3 cDNA (data not shown). To confirm that the EIN3 gene had been isolated, the genomic DNA sequences of wild-type and three mutant alleles were determined. In each case, an alteration in the sequence of each of the three mutant alleles was observed when compared to wild type (CITATIONA). ein3-1, an EMS-induced mutation, contained a G-to-A transition at nucleotide 1598 and is predicted to introduce a stop codon at amino acid 215, resulting in a severely truncated protein. ein3-3, a DEB-induced mutation, contained a G-to-T transversion at nucleotide 1688, which is predicted to replace a lysine residue with an asparagine residue at amino acid 245. The T-DNA insertion occurred at nucleotide 2001 in the ein3-2 mutation, thereby disrupting the open reading frame immediately following amino acid 349. Several of the EIN3 cDNA clones of the wild-type allele were sequenced. The longest cDNA was 2310 nucleotides in length, and its largest open reading frame encoded a protein of 628 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of approximately 69 kDa (CITATIONA). Comparison of the cDNA and genomic sequences revealed the presence of a single intron (508 nucleotides in length) located six nucleotides upstream from the beginning of the open reading frame (CITATIONB). Searches of the sequence databases with the predicted EIN3 polypeptide sequence failed to identify any proteins with significant similarity. The predicted EIN3 protein is generally hydrophilic, with no obvious membrane-spanning domains, and contains several noteworthy structural features. The region spanning amino acids 1–52 is highly acidic, with 16 residues having acidic side chains and the remainder being nonpolar or uncharged. Five small clusters of basic amino acids are found dispersed throughout the EIN3 polypeptide at the following positions : 53–66 (basic domain I, BD I); 88–94 (BD II); 238–248 (BD III); 265–274 (BD IV); and 378–384 (BD V) (CITATIONA). α helices are predicted in BDII and BDIII, whereas amino acids 199–240 comprise a proline-rich domain (CITATIONA). The algorithm of CITATION indicated with a high probability that, adjacent to the BDII, amino acids 38–74 form a coil structure. The carboxyl terminus of EIN3 is rich in asparagine residues; between positions 539 and 579, there are three mono–amino acid repeats of 4–6 asparagine residues (CITATIONB). Southern blot analysis of wild-type Arabidopsis genomic DNA probed with an EIN3 cDNA clone (pCD3) using conditions of reduced stringency hybridization allowed the detection of fragments in addition to EIN3 (data not shown). Furthermore, as described above, the initial cDNA library screen with an EIN3 gene probe resulted in the isolation of the EIL1 cDNA clones. Together, these results indicated that EIN3 is a member of a gene family. To identify additional EIL genes, the library was hybridized with an EIN3 probe under reduced stringency conditions, and two more classes of EIL cDNAs (EIL2 and EIL3) were isolated. Analysis of the EIL1, EIL2, and EIL3 cDNAs revealed that they share predicted amino acid sequence and structural similarity to EIN3 (CITATION). The EIL1, EIL2, and EIL3 cDNAs contained open reading frames encoding predicted polypeptides of 584, 520, and 567 amino acids, respectively. The sequence similarity between the EIN3 and EIL proteins ranges from 59% to 85%, with EIL1 being the most closely related to EIN3 and EIL3 the most distantly related (CITATIONA). The amino-terminal halves of these polypeptides are more conserved than their carboxy-terminal regions. As in EIN3, the extreme amino-terminal domain of each of the three EIL polypeptides contains a region rich in acidic amino acids. In EIN3 and EIL1, this acidic domain encompasses the first 52 amino acids, whereas EIL2 and EIL3 possess smaller acidic domains spanning residues 38–51 and 1–41, respectively (CITATIONB). Only the primary amino acid sequences of the EIN3 and EIL1 acidic domains show significant sequence similarity; EIL2 and EIL3 acidic domains are highly diverged. The basic domains, BD I–V, identified in the EIN3 polypeptide are also present in the EIL polypeptides (CITATIONA). The primary amino acid sequences of BD I–IV are generally well conserved among the EIN3 and EIL proteins; in contrast, the sequence of BD V is more variable among the four proteins. EIL3 has an additional basic domain, BD IVa, which is not present in the other related polypeptides. The spacing between the five shared basic domains is similar throughout the four proteins, and in all cases BD I is positioned adjacent to the N-terminal acidic region. The proline-rich region as well as the predicted coil structures are also conserved among all four proteins. In the ein3-3 mutant, Lys-245 has been mutated to Asn and EIN3 function has been impaired. As this residue is conserved within BDIII in all the EIL proteins, Lys-145 may be critical for proper function of the EIN3 and EIL proteins. EIN3 is the only member of this family that contains polyasparagine repeats near its carboxyl terminus. EIL1, however, does contain a single mono–amino acid repeat composed of nine glutamine residues located six residues upstream from the carboxyl terminus of the protein (CITATIONB). The EIN3, EIL1, EIL2, and EIL3 genes are not clustered in the Arabidopsis genome, as genetic mapping studies showed that each resides on a different chromosome (CITATIONA). Additionally, none of the EIL genes was found to map close to the known location of any of the well characterized ethylene-related mutations (CITATION). The sequence changes found in all three alleles of ein3 strongly indicated that this gene was responsible for the observed ethylene-insensitive phenotype of plants. Nevertheless, to further demonstrate that this gene was EIN3, complementation of the ein3 mutant was attempted. Introduction of the EIN3 cDNA complemented the ein3-1 mutant, restoring the triple response in the presence of ethylene (CITATION). We also tested whether the strong sequence similarity among EIN3 and EIL proteins may also reflect their functional similarity. The ability of the EIL family members to complement the ein3 mutation by transformation of 35S CaMV promoter EIL cDNA gene fusion into the ein3-1 background was examined. For each gene, several independent transformed lines were produced, and the expression of each of the transgenes was confirmed by Northern blot analysis (data not shown). Three-day-old transgenic T2-generation seedlings, grown in the dark in the presence or absence of ethylene, were screened for the triple response phenotype. Complementation of both the seedling (CITATION) and adult (data not shown) ein3-1 mutant phenotypes was observed using either EIL1 or EIL2 cDNAs. The phenotypes displayed by these transgenic plants were identical to the wild type and ein3-1 plants transformed with EIN3; the seedlings were highly elongated in air and showed the triple response in ethylene. To gain further insight into the function of EIN3, studies were initiated to examine the subcellular location of the protein. As detailed above, the EIN3 and EIL proteins display several features commonly observed in nuclear proteins that serve as transcriptional regulators. These proteins contain several short stretches of positively charged amino acids that conform to the minimal nuclear localization sequence K-R/K-X-R/K (CITATION). While antibodies to the EIN3 protein or domains within the protein have been obtained, they also recognize other cellular proteins, possibly EIL1, EIL2, or EIL3 (data not shown), complicating the interpretation of EIN3 immunolocalization studies. To determine the subcellular localization of the EIN3, a fusion between EIN3 and the GUS reporter (pRTL2-GUS-EIN3) was constructed and introduced into Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll protoplasts and soybean suspension cell protoplasts (CITATION). As controls, the protoplasts were also transformed with pRTL2-GUS, which does not contain a nuclear localization signal (NLS), and pRTL2-GUS-NIa, which contains a characterized NLS (CITATION). The accumulation of GUS activity in the nuclei of cells transformed with pRTL2-GUS-EIN3 was similar to that of cells transformed with pRTL2-GUS-NIa (CITATIONA and CITATIONB). In contrast, in cells transformed with pRTL2-GUS, the GUS activity was not localized in the nucleus, but instead was observed throughout the cytoplasm (CITATIONC). As confirmed by counterstaining with Hoechst 33342, GUS activity was also localized to the nucleus in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplasts transformed with pRTL2-GUS-EIN3 (compare CITATIOND and CITATIONE). The demonstration that EIN3 protein contains signals sufficient to target the GUS protein to the nucleus, regardless of plant species or cell type, indicated that the native protein may function in the nucleus. The effect of overexpression of EIN3 and EIL genes on ethylene responses in various stages of plant development was examined. Three-day-old T2-generation seedlings, grown in the absence of exogenous ethylene, were screened for the triple response phenotype. In approximately 10% of the lines, plants were identified that displayed a phenotype indistinguishable from wild-type seedlings treated with exogenous ethylene or from ctr1 mutant seedlings (CITATION, top). Northern blotting studies revealed that these plants were expressing approximately 100-fold the level of EIN3 or EIL1 mRNA observed in the wild type; the severity of the phenotype paralleled the level of expression of mRNA (data not shown). These plants also displayed constitutive ethylene response phenotypes (Ctr−) throughout development and maturation (CITATION, bottom). Like ctr1, the rosette leaves of EIN3- and EIL1-overexpressing plants were much smaller than wild type, and showed ctr1-like leaf shape as a result of inhibition of cell elongation. ctr1 plants are partially sterile, and the gynoecium protrudes from the flower while the pollen is still immature (CITATION). Similar to ctr1, EIN3- or EIL1-overexpressing lines showed greatly reduced fertility, and the gynoecium protruded from a flower much smaller than wild type (data not shown). In lines displaying the most severe phenotype, the rosette leaves senesced immediately after the initiation of the inflorescence; the petals and stamens also senesced earlier than in the wild type. These observations are consistent with the role of ethylene in the acceleration of leaf and petal senescence and abscission (CITATION), phenotypes indicative of the importance of ethylene in the initiation of programmed cell death processes in plants (CITATION). The phenotypes displayed by these transgenic lines could be due to increased amounts of EIN3 or EIL1 proteins, creating an increased sensitivity to endogenous ethylene. Alternatively, the elevated levels of EIN3 or EIL1 may bypass the normal regulation of the pathway, leading to constitutively active proteins. To distinguish between these two possibilities, EIN3 and EIL1 cDNAs were each expressed in the ein2-5 mutant background. This mutant is a strong allele of the EIN2 gene, and shows complete insensitivity to ethylene (CITATION). As shown in CITATION, transgenic ein2-5 plants expressing high levels of EIN3 or EIL1 showed a strong Ctr− phenotype, demonstrating that this effect is not dependent on the ability of these plants to respond to ethylene. Consistent with this conclusion, upon treatment of EIN3- and EIL1-overexpressing lines with aminoethoxyvinylglycine or silver ion, potent inhibitors of ethylene biosynthesis and action in Arabidopsis (CITATION), these phenotypes were unaffected (data not shown).
!~MM~! With the exception of ein3-2, a T-DNA insertion allele isolated in the Wassilewskija ecotype (CITATION), the ecotype Columbia (Col-0) was the parent strain for mutant isolation. Triple response screens were performed as described previously (CITATION). Seeds mutagenized with EMS, DEB, and X-rays were generated as described (CITATION). Plant growth in air and ethylene was carried out as described previously (CITATION). Crosses were performed as described (CITATION). ein3-2 was mapped with visible markers by crossing with the Landsberg W100 marker line. To map the cloned EIN3 gene, a YAC clone (yUP9A1) was isolated from the yUP YAC library (CITATION) by hybridization with EIN3, and its rescued left-end fragment (CITATION) was used to infer the map position of EIN3 relative to the RFLP markers g6220 and g4708 in recombinant inbred lines (CITATION). Fully expanded leaves from five-week-old plants were incubated for three days in the dark in sealed chambers through which air (hydrocarbon-free) or 10 μl of ethylene per liter of air was continuously passed at a flow rate of 60 ml/min. Chlorophyll was extracted and measured as described in CITATION. Total RNA and DNA extractions as well as Northern and Southern analysis were performed as described (CITATION). Plant DNA adjacent to the left border of the T-DNA insertion was isolated by plasmid rescue from plants homozygous for the ein3-2 mutation as described (CITATION). Plant DNA from a rescued plamid (p1C6) was used to screen genomic libraries in λ EMBL3 (Clonetech, Palo Alto, CA), λ DASH and λ DASHII (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). Three overlapping phages (4A1, λ2E6, and λ2E12) were isolated and restriction mapped. The EIN3 gene from λ4A1 (in λ DASH) was subcloned into pKS (Stratagene) and the sequence determined using synthetic oligonucleotide primers. To identify cDNA clones for EIN3 and EIL genes, a size-selected cDNA library in λ ZAPII (CITATION) was probed with plant DNA isolated from p1C6 under high stringency (for EIN3 and EIL1) or with the insert from an EIN3 cDNA clone under low (for EIL2-3) stringency conditions. Plasmids containing insert DNA were rescued from the phage by superinfection with the R408 or ExAssist helper phages (Stratagene). One EIN3 cDNA was completely sequenced and two additional cDNAs were partially sequenced with custom synthetic primers. To sequence the EIL cDNAs, deletions were generated using exonuclease III as described by the manufacturer (Stratagene) for the first strand, and gene-specific primers were used for sequencing of the complementary strand. All DNA clones were sequenced on both strands at least once. The predicted amino acid sequences of EIN3 and EIL1–EIL3 were used to search the most recent GenBank, EMBL, PIR protein, and SwissProt data bases. To identify sequence alterations in the ein3 mutants, PCR products spanning EIN3 were amplified from genomic DNA of the ein3 mutants and subcloned into pKS. At least two independent clones were sequenced, and the observed alterations were further verified by direct sequencing of at least two independent PCR products. A BglII–XbaI fragment from a PCR product corresponding to the first 94 amino acids of the EIN3 gene was ligated into pRTL2-GUS/NIa. The resulting clone (pBXEIN3) was digested with XbaI, and an XbaI fragment from pCD3 containing the remainder of the EIN3 gene was inserted to create pRTL2-GUS-EIN3, a fusion of GUS with EIN3 without the NIa sequence. Soybean protoplasts were isolated and transformed as described (CITATION). Protoplasts were prepared from Arabidopsis leaf mesophyll cells and transformed according to CITATION. The vectors pKYLX7 (CITATION) and pRok2 (CITATION) were used to express EIN3 and EIL s in Arabidopsis. A 3.1 kb SalI genomic EIN3 fragment , a 2.2 kb NotI EIN3 cDNA fragment from clone pCD3, and a 2 kb NotI fragment from EIL1 clone were ligated into HindIII-digested and blunt-ended pKYLX7, generating the plasmids pKYLX7-G EIN3, pKYLX7-c EIN3, and pKYLX7-EIL1, respectively. Fusions of EIN3 and EIL s were also made with a fragment containing a 6× His tag, a protein kinase A site, a thrombin cleavage site, and a Flag peptide, and cloned into pRok2 vector. The C58 strains of Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing above constructs individually were used to transform Arabidopsis ecotype Col-0 and ein3-1 mutant with in planta vacuum infiltration method (CITATION). Kanamycin-resistant T1 plants were selected by plating seeds on MS medium supplemented with 1% sucrose and 50 μg/ml kanamycin and transferred to soil. Kanamycin resistance and the triple response were scored in T2 seeds harvested from individual T1 plants. * These authors contributed equally to this work and are listed alphabetically. †To whom correspondence should be addressed.
