!~ABS~! All plant channels identified so far show high conservation throughout the polypeptide sequence except in the ankyrin domain which is present only in those closely related to AKT1. In this study, the architecture of the AKT1 protein has been investigated. AKT1 polypeptides expressed in the baculovirus/Sf9 cells system were found to assemble into tetramers as observed with animal Shaker‐like potassium channel subunits. The AKT1 C‐terminal intracytoplasmic region (downstream from the transmembrane domain) alone formed tetrameric structures when expressed in Sf9 cells, revealing a tetramerization process different from that of Shaker channels. Tests of subfragments from this sequence in the two‐hybrid system detected two kinds of interaction. The first, involving two identical segments (amino acids 371–516), would form a contact between subunits, probably via their putative cyclic nucleotide‐binding domains. The second interaction was found between the last 81 amino acids of the protein and a region lying between the channel hydrophobic core and the putative cyclic nucleotide‐binding domain. As the interacting regions are highly conserved in all known plant potassium channels, the structural organization of AKT1 is likely to extend to these channels. The significance of this model with respect to animal cyclic nucleotide‐gated channels is also discussed.
!~RES~! Production of the AKT1 protein in Sf9 cells has been described previously (CITATION). AKT1 was solubilized from the microsomal fraction of Sf9 cells with lysophosphatidylcholine, and partially purified using an anion‐exchange column. In order to obtain an estimate of the molecular weight of AKT1, the purified polypeptide was loaded onto a size‐exclusion column (Sephacryl S‐300, Pharmacia). The chromatography was carried out under non‐denaturing conditions in the presence of lysophosphatidylcholine. An aliquot of each eluted fraction was tested by dot blot with an anti‐AKT1 serum, and spot intensities were quantified by densitometry. The elution profile revealed three peaks (FIG-REF). The highest one corresponded to a complex whose molecular weight was estimated to range between 385 and 425 kDa, consistent with that expected for a tetramer of identical 95 kDa subunits. To eliminate the possibility that the elution of AKT1 as a high molecular weight complex resulted from its association with other proteins, the peak fraction was analysed by SDS gel electrophoresis. After silver nitrate staining of the gel, only the 95 kDa AKT1 polypeptide was detectable (FIG-REF). The other two peaks could be ascribed to the presence of a dimer (mol. wt 173–213 kDa) and a monomer (81–121 kDa). [[FIGURE]] AKT1 C‐Term is defined as the sequence (supposed to be intracytoplasmic) lying downstream from the last transmembrane segment (ranging from H294 to the end of the polypeptide). A large amount of correctly folded polypeptide was required for further analyses of its biochemical properties. For this reason, the baculovirus expression system was chosen, rather than production in Escherichia coli, because the polypeptide is denatured when expressed in bacteria (our unpublished data). The sequence coding for AKT1 C‐Term was inserted into the baculovirus genome in place of the polyhedrin gene, by cotransfection of the wild type baculovirus DNA with the plasmid containing the cDNA sequence. The recombinant baculovirus was used to infect Sf9 cells. From these cells, a specific polypeptide, which after 2 days of infection constitutes the major band detectable on a Coomassie blue‐stained SDS–polyacrylamide gel, was observed in the total soluble protein extract (FIG-REF, lanes 3 and 4). This polypeptide was not found in extracts of non‐infected cells or in wild type baculovirus infected cells (FIG-REF, lanes 1 and 2). Its apparent molecular weight was consistent with that (∼60 kDa) calculated for the peptide sequence of AKT1 C‐Term. Furthermore, the Western blot analysis performed with the anti‐AKT1 serum revealed only the 60 kDa band (FIG-REF, right). [[FIGURE]] An extract enriched in the 60 kDa polypeptide was obtained by chromatography of the Sf9 soluble protein on an ion exchange column. This extract was then fractionated by passing through a size‐exclusion column. Dot blot analysis of the different fractions revealed a major peak which was maximal in fractions 23 and 24 corresponding to molecular weights from 230 to 245 kDa (FIG-REF). A shoulder on this peak was also present at ∼120 kDa. No signal was detected for fractions corresponding to the monomer molecular weight (60 kDa). Electrophoretic analysis of the relevant peak fractions 20–27 revealed a few polypeptides. The 60 kDa AKT1 C‐Term polypeptide was detected by silver nitrate staining and Western blot (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). As a single 60 kDa band was observed in peak fractions 23 and 24 (FIG-REF), the most likely explanation for the elution profile shown in FIG-REF is that four identical AKT1 C‐Term polypeptides assembled to form a 240 kDa homotetrameric complex. The 120 kDa shoulder visible on the chromatogram (FIG-REF) could correspond to a homodimeric form. The two‐hybrid system was used to test the interactions between the various cytoplasmic domains present in the hydrophilic C‐terminus of the protein. The sequence coding for AKT1 C‐Term was divided into three regions, called 2, 3 and 4 (FIG-REF). Region 2 (amino acids H294–D517) comprises the putative cyclic nucleotide‐binding domain (estimated from sequence homologies to include approximately amino acids 393–477) and adjacent sequences. Region 3 (M516–I724) includes the ankyrin repeat domain (amino acids 522–693), and region 4 (I724 to the last amino acid, S857) is the extreme C‐terminus. Combinations of these structural elements, corresponding to regions 2–3–4 (complete C‐Term sequence) and 2–3, were also investigated. In region 2, a segment (∼100 amino acids) is present upstream from the putative cyclic nucleotide‐binding domain. Cleavage of the 2–3 region cDNA sequence using the AccI site resulted in a deletion covering most of this segment. The region (from Y371 to I724) corresponding to this truncated cDNA sequence was called δ2–3. The deleted sequence (amino acids H294–V370) was called 2A, and the rest of region 2, 2B (FIG-REF). Similarly, using the SspI site in the sequence coding for the 2–3–4 region, another deletion was generated which led to the elimination of the sequence upstream from I473 (including the putative cyclic nucleotide‐binding domain). The corresponding region was named Δ2–3–4. Finally, the NheI site present in the DNA sequence of region 4 was used to create region Δ4, comprising the last 81 amino acids (FIG-REF) [[FIGURE]] In‐frame fusions were made between cDNA sequences coding for GAL4 domains (DNA‐binding or activator domain) and the cDNA fragments corresponding to the different regions described above. The vectors used, pGBT9 and pACTII, enable the synthesis of fusion proteins with either the DNA‐binding domain or the activator domain of GAL4, respectively. Plasmids resulting from insertion of AKT1 sequences downstream from that coding for the GAL4 domain were designated by the name of the vector followed by the region encoded by the cDNA fragment [e.g. pGBT9(2–3–4): pGBT9 containing the 2–3–4 coding sequence]. The recipient yeast strain was cotransformed with different combinations of plasmids as shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF. The β‐galactosidase activities were systematically detected by colorimetric tests on solid medium (example presented in FIG-REF), and quantitative measurements were carried out after protein extraction. Control experiments were performed using empty plasmids in place of each one of the two plasmids. Confirmations of observed positive and negative reactions were obtained by testing the reciprocal combinations of plasmids (obtained by cloning the insert of plasmid pGBT9 in pACTII and reciprocally that of pACTII in pGBT9). In the case of positive results, such a reciprocity is considered as a strong argument for the existence of a true physical association (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Results obtained with the complete 2–3–4 region are presented in FIG-REF. Control experiments using pGBT9(2–3–4) and pACTII, or pGBT9 and pACTII(2–3–4) did not reveal any signal above the background level (0.8 unit of β‐galactosidase activity) obtained with the combination pGBT9/pACTII. In contrast, yeast transformed with both plasmids pGBT9(2–3–4) and pACTII(2–3–4) turned blue rapidly (2 h) on X‐Gal plates and displayed a high level of β‐galactosidase activity. This result confirms that interactions occur between the AKT1 C‐Term regions. In order to identify which domains in the 2–3–4 region are able to bind to the complete 2–3–4 polypeptide sequence, regions 2, 3 and 4 were tested independently against 2–3–4. Regions 2 and 4 were found to be involved in intramolecular interactions (FIG-REF). As expected from these results, regions 2–3 and Δ2–3–4 also interacted with region 2–3–4. No interaction could be detected with region 3. In addition, each single region was tested against each of the others. Two identical region 2s exhibited a positive reaction in this assay. The β‐galactosidase activity was ∼5‐fold lower than that observed with the complete 2–3–4 region, but clearly above the background level (FIG-REF). Another interaction was detected between regions 2 and 4. The signals were significantly higher than those of the controls, and the two plasmid combinations gave similar levels of β‐galactosidase activity (FIG-REF). In agreement with these observations, the following couples of AKT1 fragments gave positive results: 2–3 and 2–3, 2–3 and 2, 2–3 and 4. In contrast, the negative results obtained with 4 and 4, or Δ2–3–4 and Δ2–3–4 suggest an absence of interaction between homologous 4 regions (FIG-REF). Deletions within the regions 2–3 and 4 leading to δ2–3 and Δ4 enabled the sequences that are more specifically involved in the interactions to be localized. As shown in FIG-REF, the deletion in region 4 did not prevent association with region 2 (positive results with tests combining Δ4 and 2), showing that the extreme end of the protein is by itself able to bind to region 2. The region δ2–3 was still able to react with another δ2–3 but not with region 4; the 2A region is therefore required for association with the C‐terminal end, but it is dispensable for the interaction between regions δ2–3. This interaction between two δ2–3 regions is lost when further 5′ sequence is deleted so that the cyclic nucleotide‐binding domain is also removed, as a negative result is obtained with two Δ2–3–4 regions (FIG-REF).
!~MM~! Sf9 and Sf21 cell lines were propagated as described by CITATION. The two recombinant transfer vectors, harbouring AKT1 cDNA or the cDNA sequence coding for AKT1 C‐Term, were derived from pGmAc34T (CITATION). The insertion of AKT1 cDNA into pGmAc34T has been described previously (CITATION). The sequence coding for AKT1 C‐Term was introduced into pGmAc34T–SmaI. This vector was created from pGmAc34T by insertion of a SmaI site at position +45 (from the ATT triplet replacing the ATG initiation codon of the polyhedrin gene). The partial AKT1 cDNA sequence was obtained from plasmid pUC9–AKT1, containing the NotI AKT1 fragment from pHS41 (CITATION) inserted at a NotI site previously introduced into the pUC9 polylinker. This plasmid was digested at the NcoI site present at the end of the S6 segment, blunt‐ended with the Klenow fragment of E.coli DNA polymerase I, and religated. This created an ATG codon and an NsiI site. An NsiI–SmaI fragment encoding AKT1 C‐Term was isolated by partial NsiI digestion and use of the SmaI site of the pUC9 polylinker. This fragment was cloned into pJRD184 (CITATION) using the NsiI and SmaI sites of this vector. SmaI sites were introduced at both ends of the cDNA sequence by subcloning firstly into pSP72 (Promega), using BglII and SmaI sites, and then into pBluescript SKII (Stratagene), using BglII and XhoI sites. The SmaI fragment containing the AKT1 partial cDNA sequence was then introduced into pGmAc34T–SmaI. Sf21 cells were transfected with wild‐type viral DNA and the recombinant transfer vectors (CITATION). Recombinant baculoviruses were purified, and amplified in Sf9 cells to 108 p.f.u./ml for protein production. Sf9 cell extracts were prepared according to CITATION. AKT1 was solubilized from the microsomal fraction (100 000 g pellet) with lysophosphatidylcholine [ratio detergent/protein of 5 (w/w), in grinding medium minus glycerol and leupeptin]. AKT1 C‐Term was extracted following the same protocol as for AKT1, except that after 1 h centrifugation at 100 000 g it was obtained in the soluble protein fraction. Both polypeptides were partially purified by anion exchange chromatography (Mono‐Q, Pharmacia). The elution buffer contained 10% glycerol, 1 mM EDTA and either 20 mM histidine, pH 8 plus 0.05% lysophosphatidylcholine (for AKT1) or 20 mM piperazine, pH 9 (for AKT1 C‐Term). Proteins were eluted using a NaCl step gradient from 0 to 1 mol/l, with steps of 0.1 mol/l. A 250 ml Sephacryl S‐300 column (Pharmacia) was equilibrated (200 μl/min) with either 20 mM bis–tris propane–HCl pH 7 buffer, containing 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, 10% glycerol and 0.05% lysophosphatidylcholine for AKT1, or 20 mM piperazine pH 9 buffer, containing 100 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA and 10% glycerol for AKT1 C‐Term. The elution was carried out in the same buffer, after loading 100 μg of protein. Columns were calibrated with molecular weight standards from Sigma (MW‐GF‐1000): carbonic anhydrase (29 kDa), bovine serum albumin (66 kDa), alcohol dehydrogenase (150 kDa), β‐amylase (200 kDa), apoferritin (443 kDa) and thyroglobulin (669 kDa). Polyclonal antibodies were raised against the C‐terminal region of AKT1, as described by CITATION. Elution fractions from the size‐exclusion columns were analysed by dot blots, a 1 μl aliquot of each fraction being deposited onto a nitrocellulose membrane (Sartorius). For Western blot analyses, proteins were separated by SDS–PAGE according to CITATION and electroblotted to a nitrocellulose membrane (Sartorius) at 100 V for 1 h in a medium containing 25 mM Tris, 192 mM glycine, 0.1% SDS and 20% methanol. Membranes were processed as described by CITATION. AKT1 or AKT1 C‐Term were detected by chemiluminescence (Aurora kit, ICN). For the dot blot quantifications, intensities of the spots were measured by densitometry using ‘The Imager™’ (Appligene) and the NIH‐Imager program. Plasmid vectors pGBT9 (CITATION) and pACTII [derived from pACT (CITATION) and kindly provided by S.Elledge, Baylor college of Medicine, Houston, TX] were used for the generation of fusion proteins with the DNA‐binding domain and the activator domain of GAL4, respectively. In‐frame fusions were made between the DNA‐binding or activator domain of GAL4 and fragments from AKT1 cDNA in pHS41 (CITATION). Cloning procedures involved DNA digestions at appropriate restriction sites (see FIG-REF), end modifications using the Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I, and intermediate subclonings into pBluescript SKII (Stratagene). All constructions were checked by DNA sequencing of the vector–insert junction region. All constructions were introduced into strain Y526 (Mata, ura3‐52, his3‐200, ade2‐101, lys2‐801, trp1‐901, leu2‐3, 112, canr, gal4‐542, gal80‐538, URA3::Gal1–lacZ) (CITATION). Yeast were routinely grown on YPD medium (CITATION). For transformation, an exponential phase culture (0.6 absorbance unit) was pelleted by centrifugation, and resuspended in 1/20 culture volume of YPD medium supplemented with DTT (25 mM) and HEPES (20 mM, pH 8). After a 30 min incubation at 30°C under constant agitation, cells were washed twice with EB buffer (10 mM Tris, 270 mM sucrose, 1 mM MgCl2, pH 8) and resuspended in 1/50 culture volume of EB buffer. Fifty microlitre aliquots of the yeast suspension were mixed with 1 μg of each plasmid, and deposited between two plate electrodes (type D03N, Jouan, Saint Herblain, France). Plasmids were introduced into yeast cells by electroporation with a Jouan GHT 1287B apparatus, by a 12 ms pulse at 725 V. After transformation, yeast cells were plated onto a selective medium lacking leucine and tryptophan, composed of SD minimal medium (CITATION), complemented with isoleucine (30 mg/l), valine (150 mg/l), adenine (20 mg/l), arginine (20 mg/l), histidine (20 mg/l), lysine (30 mg/l), methionine (20 mg/l), phenylalanine (50 mg/l), threonine (200 mg/l), tyrosine (30 mg/l) and uracil (20 mg/l). Transformed yeast were replicated onto selective medium containing raffinose (2%) in place of glucose, incubated for 3 days at 30°C and tested for β‐galactosidase activity directly on the agarose plate, as described by CITATION. Quantitative tests were performed after protein extraction, according to CITATION, using o‐nitrophenyl‐β‐d‐galactopyranoside (ONPG) as substrate.
