!~ABS~! In Arabidopsis, two cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK), Cdc2aAt and Cdc2bAt, have been described. Here, we have used the yeast two-hybrid system to identify Arabidopsis proteins interacting with Cdc2aAt. Three different clones were isolated, one of which encodes a Suc1/Cks1 homologue. The functionality of the Arabidopsis Suc1/Cks1 homologue, designed Cks1At, was demonstrated by its ability to rescue the temperature-sensitive cdc2-L7 strain of fission yeast at low and intermediate expression levels. In contrast, high cks1At expression levels inhibited cell division in both mutant and wild-type yeast strains. Cks1At binds both Cdc2aAt and Cdc2bAt in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the fission yeast Suc1 binds Cdc2aAt but only weakly Cdc2bAt, whereas the human CksHs1 associated exclusively with Cdc2aAt.
!~RES~! To identify Cdc2aAt-interacting proteins we used a two-hybrid system based on GAL4 recognition sites to regulate the expression of both his3 and lacZ reporter genes CITATION. The pGBTCDC2A vector, encoding a fusion protein between the C-terminus of the GAL4 DNA-binding domain and Cdc2aAt, was constructed by cloning the full-length coding region of cdc2aAt into the pGBT9 vector (see CITATION). For the screening, a GAL4 activation domain cDNA fusion library was used, constructed with RNA isolated from 3-week-old Arabidopsis vegetative tissues. The pGBTCDC2A plasmid was cotransformed with the library into the yeast HF7c reporter strain. A total of 107 independent cotransformants were screened for their ability to grow on histidine-free medium. A 6-day incubation at 30°C yielded 800 colonies. These 800 colonies were then tested for their ability to grow on medium without histidine in the presence of 10 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole, reducing the number of positives to 235. Next, these colonies were tested for activation of the lacZ gene, and 143 turned out to be both His+ and LacZ+. After DNA preparation and restriction fragment analysis of all 143 positive clones, three different types of genes were identified. The majority of cDNA clones (139) contained a small open reading frame coding for a protein of 87 amino acids, with a calculated molecular mass of 10.5 kDa. This gene was represented by at least two independent clones, as indicated by the varying length of their 5′- and 3′-untranslated regions. The longest clone contained a 5′-untranslated region of 15 bp and a 3′-untranslated region of 180 bp. A BLAST data base search revealed that this clone (called pGADCKS) encoded a Suc1/Cks1 homologue. The gene was designated cks1At, for C d k -associating s ubunit from Arabidopsis thaliana. The specificity of the interaction between Cdc2aAt and Cks1At was verified by the retransformation of yeast with pGBTCDC2A and pGADCKS. As controls, pGBTCDC2A was cotransformed with a vector containing only the GAL4 activation domain (pGAD424) whereas pGADCKS was cotransformed with a plasmid encoding the GAL4-binding domain only (pGBT9). CITATION shows transformants plated on medium with or without histidine. Only transformants containing both pGBTCDC2A and pGADCKS were able to grow in the absence of histidine (CITATION, upper panel). CITATION shows the deduced amino acid sequence of cks1At in alignment with Suc1/Cks1 homologues from yeasts, human, Drosophila melanogaster, Xenopus laevis, and Patella vulgata. Within the highly conserved region of 69 amino acids (from Gln3 to Leu71), Cks1At has a high amino acid identity with all non-yeast homologues (68–70%). The lack of the 9-residue insertion (from Tyr55 to Leu63 in fission yeast) in Cks1At results in an identity of 48.7% and 50.0% with Suc1 of fission yeast and with Cks1 of budding yeast, respectively. In contrast to other non-yeast homologues, the Cks1At protein bears a C-terminal extension of 10–14 amino acids rich in glutamine residues. The need for this C-terminal domain for the interaction with Cdc2aAt was assayed using the two-hybrid system. A gene encoding a truncated Cks1At protein was created by mutating the Tyr73 codon to a stop codon, thereby deleting the last 16 amino acids. Subsequently, this mutated gene was cloned in frame with the GAL4 activation domain, resulting in the pGADCKSQ plasmid. This vector was introduced into the HF7c yeast reporter strain, together with pGBTCDC2A or the empty pGBT9 vector. Only transformants harboring both pGADCKSQ and pGBTCDC2A grew in the absence of histidine (data not shown), demonstrating that the C-terminal part of Cks1At is not essential for the binding of Cdc2aAt in the yeast system. To study the genomic organization of cks1At, Arabidopsis DNA was digested with four different enzymes. CITATION shows that only one band for every digest is found after hybridization with the cks1At-coding region at low stringency, indicating the presence of only one cks1At gene per haploid genome of Arabidopsis. Both suc1 and cks1 from yeast were initially identified as suppressors of temperature-sensitive alleles of cdc2 and CDC28, respectively CITATION. To determine the functionality of the Cks1At protein, we tested whether it was able to rescue the temperature-sensitive fission yeast cdc2-L7 strain. For this purpose, the full-length cks1At-coding region was cloned in the pREP3, pREP41, and pREP81 vectors, resulting in pREP3CKS, pREP41CKS, and pREP81CKS, respectively. These three vectors contain the thiamine-repressible promoter nmt1 and allow inducible expression of cks1At to different levels CITATION. Strongest induction can be achieved using the pREP3CKS vector, intermediate with pREP41CKS, and lowest with pREP81CKS. All constructs were introduced into wild-type and cdc2-L7 yeast. Wild-type cells of fission yeast transformed with pREP81CKS grew normally under both inductive (without thiamine) and non-inductive (with thiamine) conditions (data not shown). In contrast, in the absence of thiamine, cell growth was completely or partially inhibited in cells transformed with pREP3CKS and pREP41CKS, respectively (CITATION A; data not shown). Microscopic analysis revealed the cks1At-overexpressing cells to have an elongated phenotype (CITATIONE). No cell elongation was seen under non-inductive conditions (CITATIOND), nor in cells harboring the empty pREP3 or pREP41 vector (CITATIONB,C), demonstrating that the observed phenotype was linked with cks1At expression. CITATION presents the cdc2-L7 transformants grown in the presence and absence of thiamine, both at the permissive (28°C) and restrictive (35°C) temperature. At the permissive temperature a behavior similar to that of the wild-type strain was observed: cell growth was inhibited in the absence of thiamine for cells transformed with pREP41CKS or pREP3CKS, but not for pREP81CKS transformants (data not shown). At the restrictive temperature only pREP81CKS- and pREP41CKS-transformed cells grew in the absence of thiamine (CITATIONA; data not shown). No growth was observed in the presence of thiamine, showing that the rescue of the cdc2-L7 strain was specifically associated with low to intermediate expression levels of cks1At. At the microscopic level, the rescued cdc2-L7 cells showed a cellular morphology intermediate to that of cells grown either at the restrictive temperature or at the permissive temperature (CITATIONB–E). Previously, it has been shown that not every CDK protein associates with Suc1/Cks1. Human Cdk4 and Cdk5 do not bind to CksHs1 or fission yeast Suc1 CITATION. To test whether Cks1At binds Cdc2bAt in addition to Cdc2aAt, the cdc2bAt full-length coding region was cloned in fusion with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain. The resulting plasmid (pGBTCDC2B) was transformed in yeast together with the plasmid pGADCKS bearing the GAL4 activation domain fused to Cks1At. As controls, the pGBTCDC2B plasmid was cotransformed with the pGAD424 vector, which contained the GAL4-activating domain only, and the pGADCKS plasmid was cotransformed with pGBT9. Transformants were plated on medium containing or lacking histidine. Only yeast containing both pGBTCDC2B and pGADCKS grew in the absence of histidine, indicating a stable interaction between Cks1At and Cdc2bAt (CITATION, lower panel). Also the pGADCKSQ plasmid, encoding the truncated form of Cks1At, enabled growth on histidine-lacking medium demonstrating that the C-terminal part of Cks1At is non-essential for the binding of Cdc2bAt, as was observed for Cdc2aAt (data not shown). To obtain independent evidence for the interaction of Cks1At with the Arabidopsis CDKs, the Cks1At protein was overproduced in E. coli, purified to homogeneity, and coupled to Sepharose beads (see CITATION). Protein extracts from 2-day-old actively dividing cell suspensions were loaded on these Cks1At–Sepharose beads. As control, the same amount of protein was loaded on mock Sepharose beads. After incubation for 2 h at 4°C the beads were extensively rinsed with salt- and detergent-containing buffer to wash away unspecifically bound proteins. The bound proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE. Immunoblotting was performed using antibodies specific for both Cdc2aAt (34 kDa) and Cdc2bAt (35 kDa). Both Cdc2aAt and Cdc2bAt were detected in the bound material obtained from Cks1At–Sepharose beads which had been incubated with total Arabidopsis extracts (CITATIONA). No immunoreactive proteins were recovered from the extracts using the control Sepharose beads. These data clearly demonstrated that Cks1At bound both Cdc2aAt and Cdc2bAt. Assaying the Cks1At–Sepharose and control beads for kinase activity using histone H1 as substrate showed that only Cks1At beads were able to bind the activated form of the CDK complexes (CITATIONB). In a similar way as described for the Cks1At–Sepharose beads, fission yeast Suc1 and human CksHs1 beads were loaded with protein extracts from 2-day-old cell suspensions. After 2 h, the supernatants were removed and the beads were washed several times. Both the affinity bound and unbound fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE. Immunoblotting was performed using a mixture of Cdc2aAt- and Cdc2bAt-specific antibodies. As shown in CITATION C, Suc1–Sepharose (p13) bound Cdc2aAt but only weakly Cdc2bAt. CksHs1 beads (p9) associated with Cdc2aAt but not at all with Cdc2bAt, which remained in the unbound fraction.
!~MM~! Vectors and strains used were provided with the Matchmaker Two-Hybrid System (Clontech, Palo Alto, CA). Baits were constructed by inserting PCR fragments into the pGBT9 vector. The PCR fragments were created from the cDNAs using primers to incorporate EcoRI restriction enzyme sites. For cdc2aAt the primers 5′-CGAGATCTGAATTCATGGATCAGTA-3′ and 5′-CGAGATCTGAATTCCTAAGGCATGCC-3′ were used, for cdc2bAt the primers 5′-CGGATCCGAATTCATGGAGAACGAG-3′ and 5′-CGGATCCGAATTCTCAGAACTGAGA-3′. The PCR fragments were cut with EcoRI and cloned into the EcoRI site of pGBT9, resulting in the plasmids pGBTCDC2A and pGBTCDC2B. The GAL4 activation domain cDNA fusion library of 3-week-old vegetative Arabidopsis plants was obtained from Clontech. For the screening a 1-l culture of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain HF7c (MAT a ura3-52 his3-200 ade2-101 lys2-801 trp1-901 leu2-3,112 gal4-542 gal80-538 LYS2::GAL1 UAS -GAL1 TATA -HIS3 URA3::GAL4 17mers(3x) -CyC1 TATA -LacZ) was cotransformed with 590 μg pGBTCDC2A, 1100 μg DNA of the library, and 40 mg salmon sperm carrier DNA using the lithium acetate method CITATION. To estimate the number of independent cotransformants, 1/1000 of the transformation mix was plated on Leu− and Trp− medium. The rest of the transformation mix was plated on medium to select for histidine prototrophy (Trp−, Leu−, His−). After 6 days of growth at 30°C, the colonies larger than 2 mm were streaked on histidine-lacking medium supplemented with 10 mM 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). Colonies capable of growing under these conditions were tested for β-galactosidase activity as described CITATION. Of the His+ and LacZ+ colonies the activation domain plasmids were isolated as described CITATION. The pGAD10 inserts were PCR amplified using the primers 5′-ATACCACTACAATGGATG-3′ and 5′-AGTTGAAGTGAACTTGCGGG-3′. PCR fragments were digested with AluI and fractionized on a 2% agarose gel. Plasmid DNA of which the inserts gave rise to different restriction patterns were electroporated into Escherichia coli XL1-Blue, and the DNA sequence of the inserts was determined. Extracted DNA was also used to retransform HF7c to test the specificity of the interaction. A truncated form of Cks1At was generated by PCR using the primers 5′-GAGAGCCATGGGTCAGATCC-3′ and 5′-CCCTTCTAGAGTTAGTTAAGAGGC-3′. The PCR fragment was cut with NcoI and XbaI and cloned blunt into the blunted EcoRI site of pGAD424, resulting in pGADCKSQ. Association with Cdc2aAt and Cdc2bAt was assayed by cotransformation of pGADCKSQ with pGBTCDC2A and pGBTCDC2B, respectively, as described above. Total DNA from Arabidopsis thaliana ecotype Col-0 was prepared as described CITATIONand digested with BamHI, DraI, EcoRI, or HindIII. Restriction fragments were separated on a 0.8% agarose gel and transferred to nylon membranes (Hybond-N; Amersham). Hybridization was carried out using a random primed radiolabeled cks1At DNA probe in 3×SSC (1×SSC: 150 mM NaCl, 15 mM Na3-citrate, pH 7.0), 5×Denhardt's solution, 0.5% SDS, and 20 mg/ml denatured salmon sperm DNA at 60°C for 20 h. The filter was washed 3 times with 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS at 60°C for 15 min. For Cks1At expression and purification a fusion protein with the maltose-binding protein (MBP) was generated. The cks1At-coding region was PCR amplified using the primers 5′-GAGAGCCATGGGTCAGATCC-3′ and 5′-CCAATACTCATAGATCTGTTGC-3′. The PCR fragment was cut with NcoI and BglII and cloned blunt into the blunted EcoRI site of pMAL-c2 (Biolabs, Beverly, MA) and the resulting vector, pMALSUC, was transformed into E. coli XL1-Blue. E. coli cells were grown until OD=0.4 and the production of the fusion protein was induced by adding 0.5 mM isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside for 3 h at 37°C. Cells were spun down, resuspended in new column buffer (NCB) containing 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4), 200 mM NaCl, 1 mM EDTA, and 1 mM dithiothreitol, and were frozen. After thawing, cells were sonicated and spun, and the supernatant was loaded on an amylose resin column pre-equilibrated with NCB. Subsequently, the column was washed with 8 vol. of NCB. Next, the fusion protein was eluted with 3 vol. of NCB supplemented with 10 mM maltose. Cks1At was cleaved from MBP using 1% (w/w) factor Xa (Biolabs). The fragments were separated by size fractionation using a S200 Sepharose column using Beads Couple Buffer containing 0.1 M NaHCO3 (pH 8.3) and 0.5 M NaCl as running buffer. Purified Cks1At was coupled to CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B (Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden) at a concentration of 5 mg/ml of gel according to the manufacturer's instructions. Schizosaccharomyces pombe Suc1-Sepharose beads were prepared as described CITATION. Protein extracts were prepared from 2-day-old cell suspensions of A. thaliana Col-0 in homogenization buffer (HB) containing 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2), 60 mM β-glycerophosphate, 15 mM nitrophenyl phosphate, 15 mM EGTA, 15 mM MgCl2, 2 mM dithiothreitol, 0.1 mM vanadate, 50 mM NaF, 20 μg/ml leupeptin, 20 μg/ml aprotenin, 20 μg/ml soybean trypsin inhibitor, 100 μM benzamidine, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride, and 0.1% Triton X-100. In a total volume of 300 μl of HB, 150 mg of protein was loaded on 30 μl of 50% (v/v) Cks1At–Sepharose or control Sepharose beads and incubated on a rotating wheel for 2 h at 4°C. Beads were washed 3 times with Beads Buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.2), 50 mM NaF, 250 mM NaCl, 5 mM EDTA, 0.1% NP-40, 10 μg/ml leupeptin, 10 μg/ml aprotenin, 10 μg/ml soybean trypsin inhibitor, 100 μM benzamidine, and 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride. Beads were resuspended in 25 μl of SDS-loading buffer and boiled. The supernatant was separated on a 12.5% SDS-PAGE gel and electroblotted on nitrocellulose membrane (Hybond-C+; Amersham). Filters were blocked overnight with 2% milk in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), washed 3 times with PBS, probed for 2 h with specific antibodies for Cdc2aAt (1:5000 dilution) or Cdc2bAt (1:2500 dilution) in PBS containing 0.5% Tween-20 and 1% albumin, washed for 1 h with PBS with 0.5% Tween-20, incubated for 2 h with peroxidase-conjugated secondary antibody (Amersham), and washed for 1 h with PBS containing 0.5% Tween-20. Protein detection was done by the chemoluminescent procedure (Pierce, Rockford, IL). Kinase assay was performed as described CITATION, using 30 μl of 50% (v/v) Cks1At–Sepharose or control Sepharose beads and 150 μg protein extract in a total volume of 300 μl of HB. The cks1At gene was cloned under the control of the thiamine repressible nmt1 promoter CITATION. The cks1At-coding region was amplified by PCR as described above (Preparation of Cks1–Sepharose), and cut with NcoI and BglII. The pREP81CKS plasmid was obtained by cloning the PCR fragment blunt into the blunted NdeI site of pREP81; pREP41CKS was obtained by cloning the PCR fragment blunt into the blunted NdeI and BamHI sites of pREP41. pREP3CKS was obtained by cloning the PCR fragment into the NcoI and BamHI sites of BNRP3, which is a pREP3 derivative CITATION. Plasmids were transformed into fission yeast strains 972 leu1-32 h - (wild type) and cdc2-L7 leu1-32 h - using the lithium acetate method CITATION. Transformants were plated on minimal medium with or without 5 mg/ml thiamine CITATION, and incubated at 28°C. To analyze the ability of cks1At to rescue cdc2-L7 cells, plates were incubated at 35°C. Cells were fixed in 70% ethanol and analyzed by light microscopy.
