!~ABS~! A cDNA clone At.MAMI (Arabidopsis thaliana membrane-associated mannitol-induced) was isolated from an Arabidopsis cDNA expression library by immunoselection. The cDNA was full-length (1.18 kb) with an open reading frame of 798 nucleotides encoding a 265 amino acid protein. The sequence of At.MAMI did not show any significant identity with other genes, as well as the deduced amino acid sequence with other proteins. However, prediction methods for the secondary structure of MAMI-30, together with homologous domains revealed some identity with VAP-33, a protein involved in membrane trafficking in neuronal tissues. In contrast to VAP-33, MAMI-30 did not exhibit a transmembrane domain, but positively charged loop regions could be involved in membrane anchoring. Indeed, MAMI-30 was immunodetected in purified plasma membrane from Arabidopsis cells. The gene was responsive to low turgor in Arabidopsis and its expression regulated developmentally. In addition, reduction of turgor caused a higher accumulation of mRNAs.
!~RES~! An Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA expression library was screened with the antibody raised against the human vitronectin receptor. A single cDNA (At.MAMI) was isolated and sequenced (GB accession number U83655). The nucleotide and the predicted amino acid sequence are presented in CITATION . The cDNA insert is 1182 bp in length with a 798 nucleotide open reading frame. It encodes a complete 265 amino acid protein (MAMI-30) that corresponds to positions 137 through 995 on the nucleotide sequence, and has a predicted molecular mass of 30 kDa. The clone was previously isolated, although not identified by the American Arabidopsis sequencing project CITATION. Searches for sequence similarities were done using BLAST, BLOCKS and PRODOM programs. The first analysis did not reveal any significant homology. However, restricted homologies were found with a vesicle-associated protein (VAP-33), and to a lesser extent with a coat HIV virus glycoprotein and a yeast integrin-like protein. Using BLOCKS, four protein domains presented significant homologies with an amylodogenic glycoprotein, a membrane glycoprotein involved in cellular adhesion CITATION. MAMI-30 is a highly polar protein containing more than 60% hydrophilic amino acid residues. The HCA plot (CITATION ) suggests that it contains both alpha-helices and strands of beta-sheet separated by more or less extended loops. Still, no extended hydrophobic segment can be predicted along the amino acid sequence, suggesting that MAMI-30 is not a membrane integral protein. The hydropathic profiles of MAMI-30 calculated according to Hopp and Woods CITATIONand Kyte and Doolittle CITATIONdo not exhibit any extended hydrophobic segment. Due to its high content of basic residues (19%), it corresponds to a cationic protein with an estimated pI close to 10. Most of the positively charged residues, lysin, arginine and, to a lesser extent, histidine, occur in well-exposed loops on the surface of the polypeptide chain. Accordingly, these residues are assumed to create positively charged areas on the surface of the protein that could interact with cell membranes via electrostatic interactions. Other striking features of MAMI-30 are the occurrence of several exposed phosphorylation sites and dibasic sites (R-R, R-K, K-R, K-K) that could be recognized and cleaved by trypsin. Finally, MAMI-30 has a proline-rich region P227-P-P-E-T-G-P233 that could play the role of a flexible hinge region. Since no evident homologies were found with MAMI-30, HCA plot analysis was carried-out on the three sequences showing the best homology score. HCA analysis is a very efficient method to combine secondary structure prediction and sequence alignment. It is now clearly established that proteins tend to form families with common 3-D fold, and sometimes with divergence so important that filiation is not evident CITATION. Structural similarities occur between MAMI-30 and VAP-33 (VAMP-associated protein of 33 kDa) isolated from the California Sharacter with a calculated pI of 9.9 and 8.6, respectively. Two amino acid sequence homologies close to 50% occur between the N-terminus of VAP-33 (stretch 1-73) and stretch 61-142 of MAMI-30, and between stretch 81-124 of VAP-33 and stretch 156-199 of MAMI-30 (CITATION ). The comparison of the HCA plots in these regions suggests pronounced conformational similarities in the first homology region. In addition, both MAMI-30 and VAP-33 exhibit the same high number of basic doublets (7) susceptible to proteolytic cleavage by trypsin and an important content of proline residues (8.3%). Finally, both proteins are hydrophilic, and have high percentages of polar residues: 60% and 55% respectively, however, VAP-33 is a integral membrane protein with a single transmembrane domain located at the C-terminus region. DNA-RNA hybridization was carried-out at high stringency with 32P-At.MAMI cDNA to probe RNA samples extracted from all organs (data not shown). A unique band corresponding to a weakly expressed transcript of 1200 nt was observed in all the organs. In cell suspension cultures (CITATION A), the steady-state level of At.MAMI increased dramatically. The level of gene expression appeared to depend on the growth phase of cells (CITATIONC). A significant increase was observed at the beginning of the exponential phase of growth (day 5) in non-stressed conditions, before decreasing progressively to the level observed before its transfer into a fresh medium (day 0). In mannitol-adapted cultures as compared to the control cultures a strong hybridization signal was observed during all the culture period (CITATIONA). The turgor pressure of Arabidopsis cells decreased rapidly after subculturing into the fresh medium containing mannitol or not. Turgor pressure was 0.3 MPa in control cells and 0.1 MPa in mannitol-stressed cells. Along the culture, turgor pressure was 3-fold lower in mannitol than in control conditions (CITATION ). Sequence analysis of MAMI-30 does not show an obvious transmembrane domain. On the other hand, the results of homology searches attempt to classify MAMI-30 into a class of membrane proteins or membrane-associated proteins. Immunodetection of MAMI-30 on purified plasma membrane preparations was performed using polyclonal antibodies raised against the human vitronectin receptor (alphaVBeta3/Beta5). A single band was revealed on plasma membrane preparations from control and mannitol-adapted cells (CITATION ). In stress conditions the coloured band was twice as strong than in the control.
!~MM~! Arabidopsis cells were grown on Gamborg liquid medium CITATION: 15 ml cell suspension were routinely transferred to 300 ml new medium in 1000-ml Erlenmeyer every two weeks, and shaken (150 rpm, New Brunswick orbital shaker model G 10-21) in continuous light (60 W.m−2 Philips fluorescent TL 65 W) at 26°C. Before use for analysis, cells were transferred to fresh culture medium containing mannitol (250 mM) or not, and maintained in the dark for different periods (1–15 days) prior to harvesting. Determination of the water and osmotic potentials, were done with a freezing point osmometer P-55 (Wescor). Aliquots of the culture medium were directly placed into the osmometer to determine water potential. Osmotic potential was measured on the supernatant of cell samples: cells were centrifuged, frozen in liquid nitrogen, boiled for 15 min before centrifugation at 8000×g for 1 min, 8 μl of supernatant was placed on the osmometer chamber. Turgor potential was calculated as the difference between water and cell osmotic potential. The cDNA expression library from Arabidopsis thaliana culture cells (in lambda ZAP II vector) used in this study was provided by B. Lescure (UMR 215 CNRS-INRA, Castanet-Tolosan, France). Lambda ZAP II clones were plated on Escherichia coli strain XL1 Blue MRF′ (Stratagene) to yield 30 000 plaque-forming units per 150-mm plate. Dry nitrocellulose filters, presoaked in 10 mM isopropyl beta-d thiogalactopyranoside, were loaded on the top of the developing plaques after incubation for 4 h at 42°C, and incubated for 4 h at 37°C. Positive clones were selected by immunoscreening with polyclonal antibodies raised against a human vitronectin receptor (Chemicon, USA). Goat anti-rabbit antisera coupled to alkaline phosphatase (Sigma, France) was used to visualize positive clones CITATION. The revealed clones were picked, excised in vivo from recombinant phage, and introduced into E. coli SOLR strain (Stratagene) according to the manufacturer's instructions. The isolated plasmid DNA was sequenced by the dideoxy chain termination method CITATION. The DNA sequence and its deduced protein sequence were examined for homology in the non-redundant nucleotide and protein sequences data bases by BLAST CITATION, PRODOM CITATIONand by BLOCKS searches CITATION. Hydrophobic cluster analysis (HCA) CITATIONplot of the deduced protein sequence was generated using the program HCA-Plot2 (Doriane, Paris, France). Putative N-glycosylation sites were predicted, using various algorithms CITATIONby Cameleon (Oxford Molecular, Palaiseau, France) run on a Silicon Graphics Indigo R3000 workstation. Total RNA was extracted from Arabidopsis cells at various times during the culture, using a guanidium thyocyanate method CITATION. Total RNA (15 μg) was separated on a formaldehyde gel and blotted to Nytran (Schleicher and Schuell) according to the manufacturer's specifications. Filters were probed with 32P-labeled cDNAs CITATION. Microsomes from Arabidopsis thaliana cells were prepared according to Canut et al. CITATIONwith a grinding medium containing 0.17 M sucrose, 50 mM KCl, 1 mM DTT, 10 mM Hepes (pH 7.5) (KOH). The microsomes were separated by free-flow electrophoresis with a Vap-22 electrophoresis unit (Weber GmbH, Kirchheim, Germany). The electrophoresis medium contained 0.25 M sucrose, 10 mM KCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 10 mM Tris and 10 mM boric acid (pH 8.3). The electrode buffer contained 100 mM Tris and 100 mM boric acid (pH 8.3). The microsomes were resuspended in electrophoresis medium and centrifuged for 30 min at 45 000×g. Separations were performed at a 100 mA constant current (about 900V), sample injection 2 ml/h−1, buffer flow 3.5 ml fraction-1/h−1 at 4°C. The distribution of membranes in each separation was monitored by absorbance at 280 nm. Membranes were collected from pooled fractions by centrifugation for 30 min at 45 000×g. Activities of different marker enzymes were determined as previously described CITATION. Protein was determined as reported CITATIONwith bovine serum albumin as standard. Proteins from purified plasma membrane fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE CITATIONusing 10% acrylamide. Proteins were transferred to nitrocellulose by electroblotting. Membranes were incubated for 2 h with the primary antibody raised against a human vitronectin receptor alphaVBeta3/Beta5 (Chemicon, USA) (1:1000), washed and incubated for 1 h with (1:10000) alkaline phosphatase conjugate secondary antibody and washed before staining.
