!~ABS~! A polyclonal antiserum against the p34cdc2 homologue of Arabidopsis thaliana, CDC2aAt, was used in parallel with a polyclonal antiserum against the PSTAIRE motif to study the subcellular localization of CDC2 during the cell cycle of isolated root tip cells of Medicago sativa. During interphase, CDC2 was located in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm. The cytoplasmic localization persisted during the complete cell cycle, whereas the nuclear signal disappeared at nuclear envelope breakdown. At the beginning of anaphase, the anti-CDC2aAt antibody transiently co-localized with condensed chromosomes. The chromosomal co-localization disappeared as anaphase continued and remained excluded from the separated chromosomes until cytokinesis, when CDC2 re-located to the newly forming nuclei. We also observed a co-localization of CDC2 with three microtubular structures, the pre-prophase band, the spindle, and the phragmoplast.
!~RES~! In a total protein extract of A. thaliana cell suspension and of alfalfa roots, the anti-CDC2aAt antibody as well as the anti-PSTAIRE antiserum detected one protein band of 34 kDa (CITATION a, lanes 1 and 2, lane 3 and 4). Because both CDC2 homologues of alfalfa, CDC2MsA and CDC2MsB, are highly identical at the amino acid level (89%) and because both contain the PSTAIRE region and have the same molecular weight, it was impossible to determine which CDC2 homologue was recognized by the anti-CDC2aAt or by the anti-PSTAIRE antibody. For this reason, the 34-kDa protein of Arabidopsis and of alfalfa recognized by the anti-CDC2aAt and by the anti-PSTAIRE antibody will be referred to hereafter as CDC2. Further evidence for the immunospecificity of the used antibodies was obtained by immunological analysis of CDC2 in a transgenic Arabidopsis line (35S-cdc2a+), which ectopically overproduced wild-type CDC2aAt. In adult leaves of untransformed plants, the protein levels of CDC2aAt were very low and only detectable after prolonged exposure (CITATIONa, lane 5), whereas in the 35S-cdc2a+ transgenic line, CDC2aAt was highly abundant (CITATIONa, lane 6). The difference in CDC2aAt protein content between wild-type and 35S-cdc2a+ transgenic plants could also be observed after immunofluorescence microscopy of mesophyll cells derived from these plants (CITATIONb). In wild-type cells, a very weak green fluorescent CDC2aAt signal was localized in the cytoplasm, between the red autofluorescence of the chloroplasts (CITATIONb, left panel). In 35S-cdc2a+ protoplasts, the high levels of CDC2aAt protein resulted in a strong cytoplasmic signal partially masking the red autofluorescence (CITATIONb, right panel). Similar observations were made using the anti-PSTAIRE antibody (data not shown). Initially immunofluorescent labeling experiments of CDC2 were performed simultaneously in root tip cells of A. thaliana and Medicago sativa, the two most advanced models for cell cycle research in plants. We could observe similar subcellular localization patterns in cells of both plants, albeit with a higher quality for alfalfa because the cells were larger. Furthermore, it was technically easier to reproducibly generate separated intact squashed alfalfa cells. Therefore, we focused the immunolocalization to alfalfa rather than to Arabidopsis. Consequently, the data shown are of alfalfa cells. We are currently adapting the immunolocalization protocol for A. thaliana. During interphase, CDC2 was localized both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus, but was excluded from the nucleolus (CITATION CITATION a). Immunofluorescence staining with the anti-CDC2aAt antibody resulted in a stronger nuclear than cytoplasmic signal (CDC2; CITATION). Neither in the nucleus nor in the cytoplasm could any specific subcellular structures be distinguished with which CDC2 was associated, nor could any association with the cortical microtubules be observed (CITATIONa). Using the anti-PSTAIRE antibody, a strong cytoplasmic and a very weak nuclear signal (PSTAIRE; CITATION) were detected. The cytoplasmic CDC2 signal persisted during the entire cell cycle. During PPB formation, when the microtubular ring is broad, CDC2 was localized both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus and did not co-localize with the PPB (CITATIONb). In late prophase cells, a co-localization of CDC2 with the narrowing PPB was observed in approximately 35% (CITATIONc). At that stage, the CDC2aAt signal became consistently weaker in the center of the nucleus and appeared to surround the nucleus and associate with the nuclear envelope (CITATIONc). Using the anti-PSTAIRE antiserum, we observed similar localization patterns during prophase, no co-localization with the broad PPB (CITATIONa), and strong association with the narrow PPB (CITATIONb). At the end of prophase, when chromosomes are lining up at the metaphase plate, CDC2 was excluded from the chromosomal material and became distributed at the position of the spindle (CITATION a); this signal, however, was weaker than that of the cytoplasm. As metaphase progressed, a prominent association of CDC2 with the microtubules of the spindle microtubules was observed (CITATIONb). The anti-PSTAIRE signal strongly co-localized with the spindle during the entire metaphase (CITATION c). At anaphase, when the spindle poles became broader and the lined-up chromosomes were starting to segregate into two chromatids, the anti-CDC2aAt antibody localized strongly at the chromosomes (CITATIONc). This co-localization was found in 36% of all anaphase cells. Association with the spindle was not seen during this stage. During later stages of the anaphase, CDC2 localization to the chromosomes was absent. Instead CDC2 became concentrated at the anaphase spindle. The signal was, however, not as strongly associated with the microtubules as the metaphase spindle (CITATIONd). By using the anti-PSTAIRE antiserum during anaphase, a strong signal was seen between the two chromosome pairs at the future position of the cell wall, before the phragmoplast was visible (CITATIONd). We could not assign the organellic structure to which this signal might co-localize. During telophase, CDC2 was seen to co-localize with microtubules of the phragmoplast when detected either with the anti-CDC2aAt (CITATIONe) or with the anti-PSTAIRE antiserum (CITATIONe). Co-localization of the anti-CDC2aAt antibody with the phragmoplast was more evident during later stages of the telophase (CITATIONf). The anti-PSTAIRE antiserum showed, besides an association with the phragmoplast, a strong cytoplasmic signal, mainly at the position of the newly formed cell wall (CITATIONe).
!~MM~! Arabidopsis thaliana cell suspension culture (ecotype Colombia, gift of Dr. M. Axelos, Toulouse) was maintained as described previously CITATION. Sterile A. thaliana seeds (ecotype C24 and the 35S-cdc2a+ transgenic line CITATION) were germinated at 22°C on K1 medium in a 16-h light/8-h dark interval. Seeds of alfalfa were germinated at room temperature in the dark on moist filter paper. Root tips were harvested 3 days after germination. Protein extracts of plant tissues were prepared as follows. Tissue was harvested and frozen in liquid N2. The proteins were extracted by grinding cells with quartz sand in extraction buffer (25 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 15 mM MgCl2, 15 mM EGTA, 75 mM NaCl, 15 mM para-nitrophenylphosphate, 60 mM β-glycerophosphate, 1 mM dithiothreitol, 0.1% Nonidet NP-40, 0.1 mM sodium vanadate, 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride; 10 μg/ml leupeptin, 10 μg/ml aprotinin, 5 μg/ml antipain, 5 μg/ml chymostatin, 5 μg/ml pepstatin, 10 μg/ml STBI, 0.1 mM benzamidine). The crude homogenate was centrifuged at 40 000×g, 1 h, 4°C and then at 200 000×g, 1 h, 4°C. Total protein was separated by 12% SDS-PAGE, electroblotted onto nitrocellulose membrane (Hybond C-super; Amersham, Aylesbury, UK), and further processed as described earlier CITATION. Root tips were fixed and prepared following standard procedures CITATION. Squashed root tip cells were incubated overnight at 4°C with a mixture of anti-α-tubulin (1/100, Amersham) and anti-CDC2aAt (1/200) or anti-PSTAIRE (1/100) antibody in 5% BSA, microtubule-stabilizing buffer (MTSB; 50 mM PIPES, 5 mM EGTA, 5 mM MgSO4). After washing with MTSB for 1 h, cells were incubated with secondary antibody. The secondary antibodies against rabbit anti-CDC2aAt and anti-PSTAIRE antibodies consisted of a 1/200 dilution of biotinylated goat anti-rabbit antibody (Amersham). The secondary antibody was detected either with a fluorescein-conjugated extra avidin (1/100; Sigma, St. Louis, MO) or with rhodamine-conjugated avidin D (1/100; Vector Laboratories, Burlingame, CA, USA). Secondary antibodies used to detect the anti-α-tubulin antibody were an anti-mouse IgG Texas red-linked whole antibody from sheep (1/100; Amersham) or an anti-mouse IgG fluorescein-linked Fab fragment from sheep (1/50; Sigma), depending upon the fluorochrome used for the anti-CDC2aAt or anti-PSTAIRE antibody. The incubation time for the secondary antibody was 2 h at 37°C. Fluorochrome-conjugated avidin was incubated for 30 min at 37°C. Finally, the slides were washed with MTSB for 1 h, stained with 1 μg/ml DAPI for 2 min, rinsed, dried, and mounted in Vectashield (Vector Laboratories). Control experiments of single labeling, either with anti-CDC2aAt or with anti-PSTAIRE antibody, gave results comparable to a double labeling regime. Changing the fluorochrome label from Texas red to fluorescein and vice versa on the secondary antibody or on avidin had no effect on the results. The use of the K1/K2 filter block eliminated a possible leakage of the Texas red-labeled microtubules, specifically excited with the 568 nm line of the krypton-argon laser, into the image of fluorescein-labeled CDC2. Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts (ecotype C24 wild-type and a transgenic Arabidopsis line overproducing CDC2a, 35S-cdc2a+ CITATION) were prepared by standard procedures CITATIONand immunolabeled as follows. Protoplasts were fixed in 8% paraformaldehyde in 100 mM PIPES, 10 mM EGTA, 10 mM MgSO4, 0.4 M mannitol for 1 h, washed once in MTSB, 0.4 M mannitol, and incubated with MTSB, 0.5% Tween-20, 5% BSA for 30 min. After centrifugation, the protoplasts were incubated overnight at 4°C with anti-CDC2aAt (1/200) or anti-PSTAIRE (1/100) or anti-α-tubulin (1/100) antibody diluted in MTSB, 0.5% Tween-20, 5% BSA, washed for 1 h in MTSB and incubated with the secondary antibody for 1.5 h at room temperature. The secondary antibodies were used as for the root tip immunofluorescence. The protoplasts were after washing stained with DAPI (1 μg/ml) for 5 min and mounted in Vectashield (Vector Laboratories) on poly-l-lysine-coated (10 mg/ml) slides. Images were recorded with a MRC-600 Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope (CLSM) system (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA, USA). Fluorescein and Texas red fluorescence were recorded with the K1/K2 filter block combination for excitation with the 488 nm or 568 nm lines, respectively, from a krypton-argon laser (Ion Laser Technology, Salt Lake City, UT). Fluorescence from DAPI-counterstained chromatin was recorded with the IN1/IN2 filter block combination for excitation with the 363 nm line of an Ar+ ion laser (Innova Technology, Palo Alto, CA). Optical sections were recorded at intervals of 0.5 μm. Black and white photographs were taken from a high-resolution video display with T-max 100 ASA film (Eastman Kodak, Richmond, NJ). The mesophyll cells and alfalfa root tip cells of CITATION were examined and photographed with an Axioskop microscope (Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) using the filter sets 9 and 10 for fluorescein and 01 for DAPI. Color slides were taken with Fujichrome 400 ASA film.
