!~ABS~! Plants have at least two major photosensory receptors: phytochrome (absorbing primarily red/far-red light) and cryptochrome (absorbing blue/UV-A light); considerable physiological and genetic evidence suggests some form of communication or functional dependence between the receptors. Here, we demonstrate in vitro, using purified recombinant photoreceptors, that Arabidopsis CRY1 and CRY2 (cryptochrome) are substrates for phosphorylation by a phytochrome A–associated kinase activity. Several mutations within the CRY1 C terminus lead to reduced phosphorylation by phytochrome preparations in vitro. Yeast two-hybrid interaction studies using expressed C-terminal fragments of CRY1 and phytochrome A from Arabidopsis confirm a direct physical interaction between both photoreceptors. In vivo labeling studies and specific mutant alleles of CRY1, which interfere with the function of phytochrome, suggest the possible relevance of these findings in vivo.
!~RES~! Given the extensive photobiological and genetic evidence of some form of communication between the phytochrome and cryptochrome photoreceptors (CITATION), we investigated the possibility that the blue light photoreceptor CRY1 is a substrate for phytochrome-associated kinase activity. Full-length recombinant CRY1 protein was prepared from baculovirus-infected insect cells (CITATION) and added to phosphorylation reaction buffer, together with purified recombinant oat phytochrome A affinity-purified from S. cerevisiae (CITATION) (CITATIONA). No phosphorylation of CRY1 was observed in the absence of phytochrome. Addition of phytochrome alone to the phosphorylation reactions resulted in the appearance of a phosphorylated species (approximately 120 kDa) that comigrated with phytochrome; this species represents autophosphorylated phytochrome, as previously described in such assays (CITATION). Addition of CRY1 together with phytochrome resulted in the appearance of an additional phosphorylated species (MW approximately 80 kDa) comigrating with CRY1, demonstrating that CRY1 is phosphorylated in a phytochrome-dependent manner. The concentration of CRY1 in this assay was quite low (0.005 μg/μl), suggesting that the observed phosphorylation was significant. The degree of phosphorylation under red or blue light did not differ markedly; phosphorylation ocurred also in the presence of far-red light, consistent with both Pr and Pfr forms of phytochrome being effective in the phosphorylation reaction (CITATION). The CRY1 photoreceptor consists of an amino-terminal domain of 500 aa with sequence homology to microbial type I photolyases; this domain has been shown to bind both pterin and flavin chromophores (CITATION). The C-terminal domain, in contrast, is unique to the blue light photoreceptor gene family and is likely to be important for specific protein/protein interaction in the function of the photoreceptor (CITATION). It was therefore of interest to determine which domain of CRY1 was phosphorylated by the phytochrome-associated kinase activity. An amino-terminal fragment of 506 aa comprising the entire chromophore-binding domain of CRY1 was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified by nickel-affinity column chromatography through an introduced polyhistidine tag (CITATIONB). This protein species was found to bind both chromophores (data not shown) and thereby was likely to be correctly folded. A C-terminal fragment of CRY1 comprising the C-terminal 170 amino acids of the photoreceptor was likewise expressed and purified from E. coli by polyhistidine tag on a nickel-affinity column (CITATIONB). The photoreceptor fragments were added to in vitro phosphorylation reactions in the presence of phytochrome; only the C-terminal fragment of CRY1 was phosphorylated (CITATIONC) and not the N-terminal chromophore-binding domain. Phosphorylation of the CRY1 C-terminal fragment was found to be inhibited by pyrophosphate (PPi) (CITATIOND) and stimulated by polylysine (PL) (CITATIONE), in agreement with reported properties of the phytochrome-associated kinase activity (CITATION). The phosphorylation reaction is ATP-dependent, with a Km for ATP of approximately 30 μM (data not shown). Cold GTP added at a concentration of 500 μM did not inhibit the reaction (CITATIOND). The Km for phosphorylation of the CRY1 C-terminal fragment was determined by plotting the radioactive phosphate incorporation into the CRY1 C-terminal fragment (V) against the substrate concentration (S) (CITATIONF) in a Lineweaver-Burk plot, to give an approximate value for Km in the range of 10−7 M. A related cryptochrome photoreceptor, CRY2, has been identified in Arabidopsis. CRY2 shows considerable functional overlap with CRY1, although the relative contribution to many blue light responses in light-grown plant tissue is considerably less than that of CRY1 (CITATION). Like CRY1, CRY2 contains an N-terminal chromophore-binding domain and a C-terminal extension. CRY2 was evaluated for phosphorylation by phytochrome-associated kinase activity, using both full-length protein expressed in a baculovirus system and a small fragment comprising the C-terminal 106 aa, purified from E. coli (M. A. et al., unpublished data). Both full-length CRY2 and the purified C-terminal domain are phosphorylated (CITATIONG), as is the case with CRY1. We have determined that CRY1 is phosphorylated on serine residues (data not shown), consistent with the site of autophosphorylation of purified phyA (CITATION). Analysis of mutations in CRY1 has led to the identification of numerous amino acid substitutions within the carboxy-terminal domain of the photoreceptor (CITATION). To further explore the possible functional relevance of the phytochrome-associated phosphorylation reaction, we expressed and purified CRY1 C-terminal proteins harboring a number of these point mutations from E. coli (CITATIONA). These mutant proteins were assayed for in vitro phosphorylation by the phytochrome-associated kinase activity. Reduced phosphorylation was observed in HY4-9 and HY4-22 proteins at low substrate concentration (CITATIONB). Although the C-terminal domain of cryptochrome appears to be essential for function, there is relatively little amino acid sequence conservation in this domain between cryptochrome gene family members. In particular, CRY1 and CRY2 (CITATION) share only a very small region of homology comprising 8 aa (STAESSSS) within this domain (CITATIONA). We introduced a deletion of this conserved, serine-rich domain into the CRY1 C terminus (ΔCRY1) and observed that the resulting expressed recombinant protein is a poorer substrate for phytochrome (CITATIONB), although phosphorylation at higher substrate concentrations still occurs. The fact that the deletion of this conserved region between two members of the Arabidopsis cryptochrome gene family affects the degree of phosphorylation by phytochrome supports the functional relevance of this interaction. Since purified photoreceptor preparations were used in the in vitro assays, there exists the formal possibility of a contaminating activity in these preparations unrelated to phytochrome, which could be responsible for the phosphorylation reactions. It was therefore desirable to demonstrate a direct physical interaction between phytochrome and cryptochrome by independent means, and the yeast two-hybrid interaction cloning method was employed (CITATION). The C-terminal fragment of the Arabidopsis CRY1 gene was cloned into the yeast two-hybrid shuttle vector pACT containing the Gal4 activation domain (AD) (CITATION) (CITATIONA). In addition to wild-type CRY1, a number of C-terminal domains containing point mutations were also introduced into this vector. In the case of phytochrome, two different fragments from the C terminus of the Arabidopsis PHYA gene were cloned into the bait plasmid pAS1, containing the Gal4 binding domain (BD) (CITATION) (CITATIONA). The smaller of these fragments (BD Phy 689–939) includes a region containing several hot spots for mutations, which is thought to be critical for the regulatory activity of phytochrome (CITATION). This fragment also includes one of two conserved PAS domains in the phytochrome sequence (CITATION). These PAS domains have been shown to be important for protein/protein interaction in a number of organisms (CITATION). The larger of the PHYA fragments (BD Phy 624–1100) includes, in addition to these critical regulatory regions, two flanking domains known to be involved in dimerization of phytochrome (CITATION), as well as the second putative PAS domain (CITATIONA). The expression of the fusion proteins was verified by Western blotting using anti-phyA or anti-CRY1 antibodies (data not shown). The level of β-galactosidase expression in transformed yeast colonies was quantified using a colorimetric assay (CITATION). We found that none of the control constructs, either containing phytochrome or containing cryptochrome gene sequences, showed significant induction of β-galactosidase activity when transformed singly into yeast (CITATIONB). This indicates that there was no artifactual activation of the system by these introduced sequences. When constructs containing the CRY1 sequences were cotransformed with constructs containing the smaller of the PHYA fragments (BD Phy 689–939), there was likewise very little detectable lacZ activity. However, when the larger PHYA-containing constructs (BD Phy 624–1100) were cotransformed with any of the pACT constructs containing cryptochrome sequences, a significant level of β-galactosidase activity was detectable (CITATIONB). The induction was more than 20-fold over background levels; this level of activity is indicative of a direct interaction between CRY1 and phytochrome protein fragments in living yeast cells. If the observed in vitro phosphorylation of cryptochrome by phytochrome does indeed have functional relevance, it is to be predicted that CRY1 is phosphorylated in vivo, and that this phosphorylation may be stimulated by red light. We performed in vivo labeling studies on transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings overexpressing CRY1 protein containing an engineered histidine tag at the N terminus (CITATION). CRY1 protein can be readily purified from such transgenic overexpressing plants by affinity column chromatography on nickel columns. Two-week-old Arabidopsis plants were dark-adapted for 2 days and then harvested and labeled with radioactive orthophosphate as described (see Experimental Procedures). Plant tissue was irradiated for 1 min either with red or red plus far-red light, then frozen in liquid nitrogen and the CRY1 receptors purified, run on SDS–polyacrylamide gels, and subjected to autoradiography (CITATION). A phosphorylated protein of approximately 80 kDa was detectable, with stimulation of phosphorylation in extracts treated with red light as compared to dark or red plus far-red light. Western blot analysis of the samples showed the phosphorylated band to run at the precise position of CRY1, and that equivalent concentrations of CRY1 protein were obtained under each treatment so that the difference in phosphorylation was not to be ascribed to different protein concentrations (CITATION). These data are consistent with in vivo phytochrome-stimulated phosphorylation of CRY1 in Arabidopsis. If the cryptochrome blue light photoreceptors do indeed directly interact with phytochrome in vivo, the possibility exists that certain mutant forms of cryptochrome might interfere with the function of phytochrome by forming nonproductive associations that prevent interaction of phytochrome with its other substrates. Such dominant-negative impairment of phytochrome function is well-documented, occurring when nonfunctional fragments of phytochromes or nonfunctional phytochrome genes are overexpressed in transgenic plants, bind to the endogenous plant phytochromes, and interfere with proper dimerization or substrate interaction of these endogenous phytochromes (CITATION). We investigated a number of mutant alleles of hy4 for possible impairment in red light responsivity due to such dominant-negative effects (CITATIONA). A null mutant of hy4 lacking CRY1 protein (hy4-2) (CITATIONB) showed no detectable difference from wild-type in the inhibition of hypocotyl elongation response to red light (CITATIONC), consistent with previous findings (CITATION). However, two mutant alleles of hy4, which expressed mutant forms of CRY1 protein, were found to have reduced sensitivity to red light, with 10%–20% less responsiveness as compared either to a wild-type control or the null mutant seedlings (CITATIONC). One of these mutant forms (hy4-3) contains a deletion of 130 aa in the C-terminal domain of CRY1 resulting in a truncated protein (CITATIONB), while the other contains a point mutation within the chromophore-binding domain (hy4-6) (CITATIONA and CITATIONB). Since the impairment in inhibition of hypocotyl elongation under red light was quite subtle, we investigated another phenotype that is quite sensitive even to small differences in the function of phytochrome B. The time to flowering under short-day conditions is dramatically reduced in mutants lacking phyB (CITATION) and in mutants that may lie along the phyB signal transduction pathway (CITATION). In contrast, hy4 null mutant plants under such conditions have been reported to be somewhat late-flowering in comparison to the parent (CITATION). We observed late flowering under short days in the case of the hy4-2 and hy4-11 mutant alleles, which lack detectable CRY1 protein (CITATIOND and data not shown). However, the two alleles of hy4 showing reduced responsiveness to red light flowered significantly earlier than the wild-type parent (hy4-3 in comparison to parental Arabidopsis ecotype WS; hy4-6 in comparison to parental ecotype Columbia). Taken together with the reduced responsiveness to red light in the inhibition of hypocotyl elongation assay, these results are consistent with a direct interaction of the mutant alleles of CRY1 with phyB resulting in impaired function.
!~MM~! Recombinant oat phytochrome A protein was a gift from J. Clark Lagarias (University of California) and was purified from S. cerevisiae as described (CITATION). Full-length recombinant CRY1 and CRY2 protein was expressed in baculovirus and purified as described (CITATION). The C-terminal fragment of CRY1 was obtained by subcloning a fragment from nucleotides (nt) 1513–2044 (comprising aa 505–681 of CRY1) into the vector pET21a (Novagen). The construct contained a polyhistidine affinity tag at the C terminus. The C-terminal fragment of CRY2 was obtained by subcloning a fragment comprising aa 506–612 into the vector pET21a, likewise containing a polyhistidine affinity tag at the C terminus. Expressed proteins were purified from E. coli by nickel column affinity chromatography utilizing protocols recommended by the manufacturer (Novagen). The N-terminal fragment of CRY1 was obtained by subcloning a fragment from nt 1–1519 (aa 1–507) of CRY1 into the pET21 expression vector. This construct contains a polyhistidine tag at the C terminus. Expressed proteins were purified as above. Apparent molecular weights of the respective expressed purified proteins were 124 kDa (oat phyA); 80 kDa (full-length CRY1); 20 kDa (C-terminal fragment of CRY1); and 50 kDa (N-terminal fragment of CRY1). The C-terminal fragments of CRY1 protein harboring specific point mutations were obtained by PCR amplification of the region from nt 1513–2044 (aa 505–681) from genomic DNA prepared from the respective mutant plants (CITATION). The DNA fragments were cloned into pET21 and recombinant proteins expressed and purified from E. coli. The C-terminal deletion mutant was constructed by PCR amplification of a C-terminal fragment comprising aa 505–619 of CRY1 and 628–681 of CRY1, followed by ligation and cloning into the pE 21 vector. Phosphorylation was assayed in 10 μl of reaction volume containing 25 mM Tris (pH 7.5), 5 mM MgCl2, 0.2 mM EDTA, 5% (v/v) ethylene glycol, 10 μM ATP, and 10 μCi γATP (3000 Ci/mmol specific activity). Polylysine was added to a final concentration of 0.1 mg/ml unless otherwise indicated. Concentration of phytochrome was 0.01 μg/μl and concentration of other cofactors was as indicated in the figure legends. Phosphorylation reactions were carried out at 30°C for 30 min and terminated by addition of 3-fold excess of SDS sample buffer, followed by boiling for 10 min and electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels. Gels were stained in Coomassie brilliant blue, destained extensively to remove unincorporated radioactive nucleotides, then dried and subjected to autoradiography. Quantitation of incorporated label was achieved where appropriate on a Molecular Dynamics model 425 Phosphorimager. All phosphorylation reactions were carried out on the benchtop in room light, except where otherwise indicated. In-frame fusions of PHYA and CRY1 genes were made to the GAL4 DNA binding domain or activation domain, respectively, using standard molecular biology techniques. C-terminal regions of PHYA (aa 624–1100 and 689–939) from Arabidopsis (CITATION) were amplified by PCR, subcloned into the bait plasmid pAS1 (CITATION), and transformed into the yeast strain Y190. Trp prototrophic colonies were selected and assayed for activation of the transcription of the reporter gene as negative controls. C-terminal domains (aa 505–681) of wild-type and mutant versions (hy-4 9, hy4-19, and hy-4 22) of the CRY1 gene (M. A. et al., 1995) were amplified by PCR and subcloned into the two-hybrid shuttle/expression vector pACT (CITATION). Constructions were verified by DNA sequence analysis using specific primers for each vector. Plasmids containing cDNA clones for PHYA and CRY1 sequences were pAS1 and pACT, respectively. These two-hybrid vectors have been described in detail elsewhere (CITATION). The reporter strain used was Y190=MATa gal4 gal80 his3 trp1-901 ade2-101 ura 3-52 leu2-3,-112+ URA::GAL→lacZ, LYS2::GAL→HIS3 cyhr (CITATION). The basic procedures for the yeast two-hybrid system used in this study are as described previously (CITATION). Plasmids were introduced into yeast using a modification of the lithium acetate method. Yeast cells were grown in rich media, treated with lithium acetate, and incubated in the presence of the plasmid. The cells were then plated onto a minimal media that lacks the appropriate nutrients for plasmid selection. The resulting strains were checked for their activation properties and their ability to activate the lacZ reporter. The chimeric GAL4 AD-CRY1 fusion constructs were transformed into Y190 Trp prototrophic colonies harboring the chimeric fusions GAL4 BD-PHYA, and Leu and Trp prototrophic colonies were selected. The level of β-galactosidase expression was quantified using a colorimetric assay with clorophenol red β-D-galactopyranoside (CPRG) as substrate, which results in greater sensitivity (CITATION). Averages of β-galactosidase activities were determined on at least three colonies from each transformation. β-galactosidase activities were calculated using the equation: Units of β-galactosidase activity = 1000× OD 574/V×T× OD 600 Two-week-old transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing recombinant CRY1 containing a polyhistidine tag (CITATION) were transferred to dark for 48 hr and then immersed into radioactive orthophosphate (concentration of 1 mCi/ml) and incubated for 4 hr in darkness. The tissue was divided into equal proportions (approximately 1 g of wet weight per sample) under green safelight and treated for 1 min with high-fluence red light (30 μmoles/m2 per sec) or high-fluence red light given simultaneously with far-red light (fluence 100 μmol/m2 per sec). Tissue was then immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen, ground in a mortar containing ice-cold extraction buffer (50 mM Tris [pH 7.5], 500 mM NaCl, 0.5% (v/v) Triton X-100, 2.5 mM sodium fluoride, and 1 μg/ml Okadaic acid (Sigma) and protease inhibitor cocktail (cat# 1836170, Boehringer Mannheim). Homogenate was transferred to Eppendorf tubes, spun for 10 min at 4°C, and the supernatant transferred to a fresh tube together with nickel resin for affinity purification of histidine-tagged CRY1. Samples were incubated with the resin for 1 hr at 4°C and then washed as follows: 3× 1 ml of washing buffer 1 (WB1) (same as extraction buffer); 3× 1 ml of WB2 (50 mM Tris [pH 7.5], 300 mM NaCl, 2.5 mM sodium fluoride, and protease inhibitors); and 3× 1 ml of WB3 (50 mM Tris [pH 7.5], 300 mM NaCl, 2.5 mM sodium fluoride, 10 mM imidazole, and protease inhibitors). SDS sample buffer (50 μl) was then added to the washed resin and the sample boiled for 10 min prior to electrophoresis on a polyacrylamide gel. Western blotting with anti-CRY1 antibody was carried out as described (CITATION). Seeds of the indicated genotypes were surface-sterilized and sown on MS agar plates containing 2% sucrose as described (CITATION). After 2 days at 4°C, the plates were transferred to continuous red light (fluence 4 μmol/m2 per sec) for 4 days prior to measurement of hypocotyl lengths. The time to flowering was measured for plants grown on soil under an 8 hr photoperiod at 22°C under white (Phillips Cool White) fluorescent bulbs. * To whom correspondence should be addressed (e-mail: mahmad@sas.upenn.edu).
