!~ABS~! A cDNA clone encoding a histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HisRS) was characterized from Arabidopsis thaliana . The deduced amino acid sequence (AtHRS1) is surprisingly more similar to HisRSs from archaebacteria than those from eukaryotes and prokaryotes. AtHRS1 has an N-terminal extension with features characteristic of mitochondrial and chloroplast transit peptides. Transient expression assays in tobacco protoplasts clearly demonstrated efficient targeting of a fusion peptide consisting of the first 71 amino acids of AtHRS1 joined to jellyfish green fluorescent protein (GFP) to both mitochondria and chloroplasts. These observations suggest that the AtHisRS1 cDNA encodes both mitochondrial and chloroplast histidyl-tRNA synthetases.
!~RES~! Two distinct types of Arabidopsis cDNAs with deduced amino acid sequences similar to those of known HisRSs from other organisms have been reported as expressed sequence tags (ESTs) CITATION . One of them (Genbank accession no. R90550) probably represents a cDNA for cytosolic HisRS, because the deduced amino acid sequence is much more similar to cytosolic HisRSs from rice CITATION and humans CITATION (67% and 49% amino acid identity, respectively) than to E. coli HisRS (22% identity) CITATION . The other type (exemplified by accession no. H36569) shares moderate sequence similarity rather equally with HisRSs from eukaryotes, prokaryotes, and archaebacteria (25–33% deduced amino acid identity), and thus was selected as a possible candidate for an organellar enzyme. The complete sequencing of the clone revealed that it encodes a probable full-length cDNA of 1544 bp for a novel HisRS, termed AtHRS1. The deduced 486 amino acid sequence revealed extensive overall similarity with HisRS sequences from other organisms ( CITATION ). Surprisingly, the AtHRS1 amino acid sequence is most similar to HisRSs from archaebacterial counterparts, i.e. 33% amino acid identity with Methanococcus jannaschii HisRS (SwissProt accession no. Q58406) and 32% identity with Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum HisRS (Genbank accession no. AE000811), respectively. In contrast, the AtHRS1 sequence displays less similarity to HisRSs from eukaryotes and prokaryotes, i.e. 31%, 30% and 28% amino acid identity with those from rice (cytosolic), E. coli , and human (cytosolic), respectively. AtHRS1 contains all three conserved sequence motifs characteristic of class II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases CITATION as shown in CITATION . Furthermore, two sequence blocks conserved among known HisRSs CITATION are clearly present in the AtHRS1 sequence, i.e. VVRGLAYY (residues 332–337), and GGRYDRL (residues 357–363). These blocks have been shown to form a histidine-binding pocket from the analysis of the three-dimensional structure of HisRSs from E. coli CITATION and T. thermophilus CITATION . The conservation of the motifs described above, together with the considerable sequence identity of AtHRS1 with HisRSs from other organisms, strongly suggest that this is a functional HisRS. The existence of the other EST clone (R90550) for cytosolic-type HisRS mentioned above indicated that AtHRS1 may function in a different subcellular compartment, i.e. mitochondria and/or chloroplasts. Consistent with this idea, the HisRS alignment revealed the presence of an N-terminal extension in AtHRS1 ( CITATION ), with a possible role in organelle targeting. AtHRS1 is 64 amino acids longer at the N-terminus than the M. jannaschii HisRS, and even 14 amino acids longer than the S. cerevisiae mitochondrial HisRS, which has a 20 amino acid mitochondrial presequence at its N-terminus CITATION . The first 50 amino acids of AtHRS1 are enriched for leucine, serine and arginine residues, and contain only a single acidic residue. This biased composition is a common hallmark for mitochondrial and chloroplast targeting sequences CITATION . The MitoProt II software CITATION strongly predicts that the AtHRS1 presequence is a mitochondrial targeting sequence. To examine copy number of the archaebacterial-like HisRS gene in the Arabidopsis genome, we performed Southern blot analysis ( CITATION ) using the AtHRS1 cDNA as a probe. Under stringent washing conditions (calculated to reveal nucleotide sequences more than 94% identical to the probe), only single band was evident in each lane ( CITATION a), corresponding to the gene encoding AtHRS1. However, when less stringent conditions were used (to reveal sequences with only 80% identity) with the same filter, an additional band was detected in each lane ( CITATION b), suggesting another related gene in the Arabidopsis genome. In agreement with these observations, another EST sequence (Genbank accession no. T43519) has been reported recently from Arabidopsis that resembles the AtHRS1 cDNA. We confirmed by sequence analysis that the second EST clone corresponds to a partial cDNA including 318 nt of coding region with 89% nucleotide identity with the C-terminal portion of the AtHRS1 cDNA. A 13 nt deletion in a well-conserved region towards the C-terminus (corresponding to residues 461–464 in AtHRS1) results in a frame-shift of the final 25 codons of the cDNA. As this region of HisRS is thought to be involved in tRNA His binding CITATION , one can wonder whether this sequence encodes a functional HisRS. When the second EST clone, T43519, was used as a hybridization probe on the same filter, strong signals were observed in exactly the same positions as the weaker bands with the AtHRS1 cDNA probe ( CITATION c), demonstrating that the second gene copy corresponds to this EST. We conclude that at least two archaebacterial-like HisRS sequences of more than 80% nucleotide identity are encoded in the Arabidopsis genome, although it is not yet apparent whether the second gene is functional. To determine the cellular localization of the AtHRS1 product, a recombinant plasmid (termed AtHRS-GFP) was constructed in which the first 71 codons of the AtHRS1 cDNA, encoding the putative targeting peptide, were fused to the coding sequence of Aequorea victoria green fluorescent protein (GFP) CITATION . As controls, we used fusion constructs encoding CoxIV-GFP CITATION and RecA-GFP CITATION , in which the targeting peptides from yeast mitochondrial CoxIV and Arabidopsis chloroplast RecA, respectively, were fused to GFP. It has already been established that these two fusion proteins are faithfully targeted to each organelle upon expression in plant cells CITATION . When the RecA-GFP fusion construct was introduced into tobacco leaf protoplasts by electroporation and analyzed by confocal fluorescence microscopy, GFP fluorescence was localized exclusively in oval structures 3–6 μm in diameter, and perfectly matched with red autofluorescence from chloroplast pigments ( CITATION a), demonstrating that this fusion protein is efficiently targeted to chloroplasts in this system. In cells expressing the CoxIV-GFP fusion protein, green fluorescence was observed in hundreds of round, oval or rod-like particles of 0.5–1 μm diameter, scattered throughout the cytoplasm ( CITATION b), indicating that the CoxIV-GFP fusion proteins were efficiently delivered into mitochondria. A very similar pattern was obtained by staining protoplasts with the mitochondrial-specific dye MitoTracker Red ( CITATION d). In cells expressing the AtHRS-GFP fusion protein, the GFP fluorescence was found to be localized in both mitochondria and chloroplasts ( CITATION c). A low resolution double staining experiment using AtHRS-GFP and MitoTracker Red showed that the GFP fluorescence in mitochondria corresponded to the staining pattern seen with the dye, confirming the mitochondrial localization of the AtHRS-GFP fusion protein (data not shown). The strength of the AtHRS-GFP signals in mitochondria and chloroplasts was somewhat lower than those of either of the organelle-specific controls. Supposing the level of expression is the same in these three fusion constructs, this may be partly due to dilution of the GFP because of the dual targeting. No background green fluorescence was detected in the cytosol or nucleus indicating the targeting was highly specific in all cases.
!~MM~! Except where stated otherwise, standard molecular biological techniques were performed using the protocols described by Ausubel et al. CITATION . Full details of the cloning procedures are available on request. Oligonucleotides were purchased from Genosys (Cambridge, UK). Sequencing was performed with fluorophore-labelled primers in a semi-automated sequencing system (model 373A; Applied Biosystems). Total DNA of greenhouse-grown Arabidopsis plants was prepared as described previously CITATION . Two μg of genomic DNA was digested with appropriate restriction enzymes, separated on a 0.7% agarose gel, and transferred to Hybond-N + nylon membrane (Amersham International, Little Chalfont, UK). Radioactive DNA probes were prepared using the Oligolabelling Kit (Pharmacia Biotech., Sweden) with α- 32 P dCTP (Amersham), using a gel-purified 1.1-kb Pst I- Xho I fragment of the AtHRS1 cDNA clone or a 0.5-kb Sal I- Not I fragment of the EST clone T43519 as templates. Prehybridization and hybridization were carried out at 42°C in 50% formamide, 6×SSPE, 5×Denhardt's solution, 0.5% SDS, 100 μg/ml denatured salmon sperm DNA. The hybridized filter was then washed twice for 2 min in 2×SSC, 0.1% SDS at room temperature, once for 1 h at 51°C in 1×SSC, 0.1% SDS, and once for 30 min at 51°C or 65°C in 0.1×SSC, 0.1% SDS. Autoradiography was carried out at −80°C using REFLECTION (Dupont) X-ray film and intensifying screens. The targeting sequences corresponding to the first 71, 68, and 20 amino acids of AtHRS1, Arabidopsis RecA, and yeast CoxIV, respectively, were PCR-amplified from cloned genes or cDNA or Arabidopsis genomic DNA using pairs of primers as follows; AtHRS: 5′-CACTCCATGGTCGACCCACGCGTCC-3′, 5′-CCTTCCATGGGATTGACATCGATCTTCTT-3′; RecA: 5′-AGAACCATGGATTCACAGCTAGTCTT-3′, 5′-GCGCCCATGGTTCTGTCATCGAATTCAG-3′; CoxIV: 5′-AGCACCATGGTTTCACTACGTCAATCTA-3′, 5′-TTCACCATGGGTTTTTGCTGAAGCAG-3′. Amplified fragments were digested with Nco I and cloned in-frame into an Nco I site of the GFP expression vector pCK GFP S65C CITATION . The AtHRS-GFP plasmid was further modified by oligonucleotide-mediated in vitro mutagenesis to remove its 5′-UTR sequence. The sequences of the resulting plasmids, termed AtHRS-GFP, CoxIV-GFP, and RecA-GFP were checked by sequencing, and it was confirmed that all three fusion constructs had exactly the same 5′-UTR sequences followed by the start codons of the respective targeting sequences, fused to the GFP coding region. Tobacco mesophyll protoplasts were prepared from young leaves of Nicotiana tabacum (cv. Xanthi, doubled haploid line XHFD8) as described previously CITATION . Protoplasts were electropolated with 100 μg of the respective plasmid DNAs and incubated in the dark for 24 h before confocal microscope analysis. Protoplasts were examined with a Leica TCS-NT confocal laser scanning microscope with an argon/krypton laser (Omnichrome, Chino, CA, USA) and a SP510 short pass filter for excitation. A reflect short pass filter (RSP580) was used to separate the emission beam in two. GFP fluorescence was collected through a long pass filter (LP515) and chloroplast autofluorescence through a second long pass filter (LP590). Slow scan (220 lines per second) images (1024×1024 pixels) were generated using a 40×/1.00–0.50 PL FLUOTAR objective. In some experiments, MitoTracker Red CMXRos (Molecular Probes Europe, Leiden, The Netherlands) was used to stain mitochondria. The dye was added to 0.5 μM final concentration to protoplasts in 0.5 M mannitol, 5 mM KCl, 200 μM MOPS-KOH, pH 7.2 for 15–30 min. MitoTracker Red fluorescence was collected using a band pass filter (BP568) for excitation and a long pass filter (LP590) for emission. Sequence alignments and pairwise comparisons of sequences were performed using the PILEUP and BESTFIT programs from the Wisconsin Package Version 9.1, Genetics Computer Group (GCG), Madison, WI, USA. For phylogenetic analyses, amino acid sequences from motif 1 to motif 3 of HisRSs or the nucleotide sequences of tRNA His were first aligned by PILEUP. Replicates were generated by SEQBOOT and used for parsimony methods (PROTPARS or DNAPARS), maximum likelihood methods (PROTML or DNAML) and distance matrix methods (DNADIST or PROTDIST followed by NEIGHBOR) in PHYLIP (J. Felsenstein, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA). Bootstrap percentage values were calculated by CONSENSE in PHYLIP.
