!~ABS~! To understand the regulatory mechanisms underlying the biogenesis of photosystem II (PSII) we have characterized the nuclear mutant hcf136 of Arabidopsis thaliana and isolated the affected gene. The mutant is devoid of any photosystem II activity, and none of the nuclear‐ and plastome‐encoded subunits of this photosystem accumulate to significant levels. Protein labelling studies in the presence of cycloheximide showed that the plastome‐encoded PSII subunits are synthesized but are not stable. The HCF136 gene was isolated by virtue of its T‐DNA tag, and its identity was confirmed by complementation of homozygous hcf136 seedlings. Immunoblot analysis of fractionated chloroplasts showed that the HCF136 protein is a lumenal protein, found only in stromal thylakoid lamellae. The HCF136 protein is produced already in dark‐grown seedlings and its levels do not increase dramatically during light‐induced greening. This accumulation profile confirms the mutational data by showing that the HCF136 protein must be present when PSII complexes are made. HCF136 homologues are found in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis species PCC6803 (slr2034) and the cyanelle genome of Cyanophora paradoxa (ORF333), but are lacking in the plastomes of chlorophytes and metaphytes as well as from those of rhodo‐ and chromophytes. We conclude that HCF136 encodes a stability and/or assembly factor of PSII which dates back to the cyanobacterial‐like endosymbiont that led to the plastids of the present photosynthetic eukaryotes.
!~RES~! The hcf136 mutant of A.thaliana ecotype Wassilewskya was generated by T‐DNA insertion mutagenesis and isolated from the mutant collection of K.Feldmann (CITATION). Genetic analysis showed that the mutation is recessive. The kanamycin resistance marker carried by the T‐DNA and the mutant phenotype co‐segregated, thus indicating that the mutation was due to the insertion of the T‐DNA (data not shown). The hcf136 mutant was selected by its high chlorophyll fluorescence which could be detected by eye under UV light in the dark (CITATION). When germinated on soil, homozygous mutant seedlings were found to be lethal. They developed pale green cotyledons but no primary leaves. Cultivation on a sucrose‐supplemented Gelrite medium rescued the mutant seedlings leading to a wild‐type‐like habitus. However, the mutant seedlings became somewhat paler during culture in the light, indicating that even a relatively low photon flux density of ∼20–50 μmol/m2/s causes photooxidative damage and results in the progressive loss of chlorophyll. Mutant plants did not produce any flowers. The functional state of PSII can easily be monitored by non‐invasive chlorophyll fluorescence measurements (CITATION). Analysis of hcf136 mutant seedlings revealed no variable fluorescence with this technique (FIG-REF), indicating that PSII was completely inactive and that the linear electron flow was interrupted. Measurements of the absorbance kinetics of the P700 reaction pigment at 820 nm (FIG-REF) supported this inference. A strong light‐pulse, given after illumination with far‐red light, induced a further increase in the absorbance in mutant plants, whereas a decrease was detected in the wild type. Such an increase is also observed in plants treated with the herbicide DCMU [3‐(3′,4′‐dichlorophenyl)‐1,1‐dimethylurea] which completely blocks the electron transport between PSII and photosystem I (PSI) (compare with CITATION). The altered redox kinetics of P700 in mutant plants are therefore due to a lacking electron flow from PSII, and are not caused by deficiencies in PSI. [[FIGURE]] Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements at 77K verified the above findings (FIG-REF). The emission band at 733–735 nm, which is characteristic for a functional PSI, was clearly detectable in the mutant, corroborating evidence that PSI is functional or at least present in mutant plants. In contrast, the two emission peaks at 688 and 695 nm, which are indicative of the PSII reaction centre, were undetectable. Instead, the two bands were replaced by a new emission peak at 685 nm which is not found in the wild type. This additional band probably originates from the increased emission of the peripheral light‐harvesting complex of PSII (LHCII) which in turn is caused by the inhibition of exiton transfer from the peripheral to the inner light‐harvesting complex in the mutant (CITATION). Taken together, all spectroscopic data indicate that PSII is completely inactive in hcf136 and that this defect represents the primary lesion. PSII and its associated light‐harvesting complex are preferentially located in the stacked grana regions, while the cytochrome b6f complex and PSI are found in the margins of the grana as well as in stroma thylakoids (CITATION). Wild‐type chloroplasts display the typical differentiation into stroma and grana lamellae, whereas hcf136 thylakoids reveal a strikingly different ultrastructure (FIG-REF). The grana appear enlarged by 6‐ to 8‐fold and extend almost throughout the chloroplast. Mutant grana lamellae are closely appressed to each other, indicating that the spacing of the thylakoid membranes within one granum is reduced. [[FIGURE]] The spectroscopical analyses indicated that the mutational defect of hcf136 resides in PSII. To support this contention and to investigate the PSII subunits affected by the mutation, thylakoid membranes of hcf136 were analysed by immunoblotting (FIG-REF) using a collection of antisera raised against individual PSII polypeptides and representative polypeptides of other photosynthetic membrane complexes (CITATION). The plastome‐encoded subunits of PSII analysed are almost undetectable (CP47, CP43, D2 and D1) or drastically depleted (cytochrome b559) in mutant thylakoids. Even the nuclear‐encoded subunits of the oxygen‐evolving complex, the 34 and 23 kDa proteins, fail to accumulate to significant levels in hcf136. In contrast, the amount of the 24 kDa LHCII polypeptide is not reduced as estimated by silver‐stained SDS gels (data not shown). [[FIGURE]] Reduced levels (∼70%) are also observed for subunits A/B and D of PSI which were investigated as representative polypeptides of this photosystem (FIG-REF). These reductions are already detectable in 1‐week‐old seedlings (data not shown), suggesting that the hcf136 mutation affects also PSI. However, it is often observed with PSII mutants that their PSI content is also affected, indicating that the reduced PSI levels in PSII mutants are due to secondary effects of the mutation. In the case of hcf136 this view is supported by the spectroscopic analyses (see above) which revealed that the PSI reaction centres accumulating are functional. Therefore, a direct effect of the hcf136 mutation on PSI appears to be unlikely but cannot be excluded at the current stage of investigation. No differences in steady‐state levels were observed for subunits of the cytochrome b6f complex (cytochrome f and subunit IV) and of the chloroplast ATP synthase (α and β subunits), demonstrating that the HCF136 gene product is not needed for the assembly of these thylakoid membrane complexes. Taken together, the immunoblot analyses indicate that hcf136 is primarily affected in PSII and that the reduction in PSI reaction centres is likely due to secondary effects of the mutation. To understand why PSII polypeptides do not accumulate in hcf136 plants, the levels and patterns of the plastomeand nuclear‐encoded PSII transcripts were investigated by RNA gel blot hybridization. Representative plastomeand nuclear‐encoded genes for components of other thylakoid membrane complexes were included in this analysis (CITATION). The experiments revealed that both the amount and the sizes of all analysed transcripts were not altered in the mutant (data not shown). The inability of hcf136 to accumulate PSII subunits is therefore not caused by a missing transcript encoding one of these structural PSII proteins, but must be due to a translational defect or, alternatively, to the instability of the PSII subunits once they have been synthesized. To distinguish between these two possibilities, the rate of synthesis of thylakoid membrane proteins was investigated in intact mutant seedlings by pulse‐labelling experiments with [35S]methionine (FIG-REF). To obtain an easily interpretable labelling pattern, the synthesis of the nuclear‐encoded chloroplast proteins was blocked with cycloheximide, and only the plastome‐encoded PSII proteins were investigated. FIG-REF shows that the protein labelling patterns of mutant and wild type are similar with respect to the numbers of polypeptides detectable and their intensity of labelling. The PSII subunits CP47, CP43, D1 and D2 can be identified due to their known electrophoretic mobilities (CITATION). They are synthesized in the mutant, but the incorporation of [35S]methionine into these proteins is reduced by ∼50% as compared with the wild type. Therefore, the lack of the plastome‐encoded PSII subunits in hcf136 cannot be explained by a translational deficiency, but must be predominantly caused by an increased instability of these PSII subunits in the mutant background. [[FIGURE]] FIG-REF also reveals that the synthesis of PSA‐A/B is significantly reduced in the hcf136 mutant. This can be due to enhanced proteolysis within the short incubation time of 15 min or to an effect on synthesis of these proteins in the mutant background. Since segregation and Southern blot data indicated that the mutated hcf136 gene was tagged by T‐DNA, the genomic regions flanking the right border of the T‐DNA were isolated by inverse PCR (CITATION) as described in Materials and methods. Sequence analysis of the cloned PCR‐amplified fragment and Southern hybridization with genomic DNA from hcf136 and wild‐type plants (data not shown) confirmed that the isolated PCR fragments indeed flank the right T‐DNA border. To examine the effect of the T‐DNA insertion on the expression of the HCF136 gene the isolated PCR genomic fragment was used for Northern hybridization (FIG-REF). With RNA from wild‐type plants the probe hybridized to a single transcript of ∼1.4 kb in length. No hybridizing RNA of that size could be detected in RNA from mutant plants but some degradation products appeared at ∼0.4 kb. Reprobing the filters with psbO sequences which encode the 34 kDa polypeptide of the oxygen‐evolving complex of PSII revealed no differences in the hybridization intensity of the psbO mRNA, thus demonstrating that equal RNA amounts have been analysed in both cases (FIG-REF). It follows from this that the T‐DNA insertion leads to the inactivation of the presumptive HCF136 gene by inhibiting the stable accumulation of its transcript. [[FIGURE]] To determine the sequence of the affected gene, a λZAP‐cDNA library prepared from Arabidopsis leaves was screened with the genomic sequence that had been used for Northern hybridizations. Twenty‐two of the positive cDNAs obtained were partially sequenced from both ends and found to contain identical sequences. The largest clone of these cDNAs, pcAt136–28, was 1400 bp in size and was sequenced on both strands. Sequence analysis revealed an open reading frame of 403 amino acids encoding a protein of 44.1 kDa. To confirm that the HCF136 gene disruption was indeed responsible for the high chlorophyll fluorescence phenotype of hcf136, the pcAt136–28 cDNA was fused to the 35S promoter of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (see Materials and methods), and the chimeric gene was introduced into homozygous mutant plants via Agrobacterium tumefaciens using a root transformation protocol (CITATION). In each of the 14 independently generated transformants the HCF136 cDNA was able to complement the mutation and to restore wild‐type characteristics. The transformed mutants turned normal green and showed chlorophyll fluorescence induction kinetics indistinguishable from wild type (FIG-REF). In particular, the ratio of the variable to the maximal fluorescence (Fv/Fm) which reflects the efficiency of the primary photochemical events in PSII was fully restored in the complemented lines (FIG-REF). The complementation experiment thus ultimately demonstrates that the mutant gene disrupted by the T‐DNA is the causative factor of the mutation, and that the cDNA sequences isolated encode a functional HCF136 protein. [[FIGURE]] The HCF136 reading frame present in the cDNA pcAt136–28 encodes a protein of 403 amino acids (FIG-REF). The flanking region of its ATG start codon matches the consensus motif CA ATG GC which has been found around the translational initiation sites of a large number of plant genes (CITATION) suggesting that this ATG is the translational initiation codon. However, the genomic sequence of HCF136 (http://www.kazusa.or..) revealed that there is an additional in‐frame ATG codon. This putative translational initiation codon is located 23 amino acids in front of the one present in pcAt136–28, but lacks the sequence context typical for plant translational initiation sites. Because of this, and since the complementation test demonstrated that the HCF136 reading frame present in pcAt136–28 encodes a functional protein we conclude that this upstream AUG codon is not used as the translational initiation codon. [[FIGURE]] Database searches failed to detect any sequence motives or domains that could shed some light on the function of the HCF136 protein. These searches did, however, identify significant similarities with two ORFs of yet unknown function (FIG-REF). ORF333 is encoded in the plastome of the glaucocystophycean alga Cyanophora paradoxa and ORF342 (slr2034) by the genome of the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803. The three proteins revealed 34% identical and 14% similar amino acid positions which are more or less evenly distributed. In addition to three minor insertions, the central part of the HCF136 protein contains 19 amino acids which are not found in the glaucocystophycean and cyanobacterial homologues. We conclude that the HCF136 gene was present in the genome of the cyanobacterial‐like endosymbiont that gave rise to the extant plastids of all photosynthetic eukaryotes, but was transferred to the nucleus before the rhodophyte/chromophyte and chlorophyte lineages separated. In both the cyanobacterium and the glaucocystophyte, the HCF136 homologues are located directly upstream of the psbE‐F‐L‐J operon, whose gene order and composition has been conserved in both the cyanobacteria and the plastomes of all photosynthetic eukaryotes sequenced so far (http://www.ebi.ac.u..). The psbE‐F‐L‐J operon exclusively encodes PSII proteins, and the clustering of the HCF136 homologues with this operon may be taken as further support that HCF136 is functionally associated with PSII. The N‐terminal region of the HCF136 reading frame is similar to transit sequences that direct nuclear‐encoded proteins into the chloroplast (CITATION), suggesting that the HCF136 protein is located in this organelle. To prove this assumption and to determine precisely the intracellular location of the HCF136 protein, immunoblot analyses were carried out with fractionated intact chloroplasts. As a prerequisite, an antiserum was raised to HCF136 protein which had been produced in Escherichia coli, and the antiserum was furthermore affinity‐purified. The antiserum labelled a 37 kDa protein in crude extracts prepared from Arabidopsis and spinach plants but did not detect any protein in hcf136 extracts (data not shown). This finding demonstrated the specificity of the antiserum produced and corroborated that the T‐DNA insertion prevented the accumulation of HCF136 protein. The apparent molecular mass of the detected protein was ∼7 kDa less than the predicted molecular mass of the entire HCF136 reading frame (FIG-REF). Such a reduced size was to be expected if the N‐terminal part functions as a plastidial transit peptide and is removed after import into the organelle. In line with this expectation, the HCF136 protein was found to be located in intact chloroplasts (FIG-REF). Subfractionation of the intact chloroplasts by sucrose density gradient centrifugation showed that the HCF136 protein is associated with the thylakoid membrane and not with the envelope (FIG-REF). Washing with 0.2 M Na2CO3 (FIG-REF) released the HCF136 protein from the chloroplast membrane fraction suggesting that it is attached to this membrane. The hydropathy analysis (data not shown) supported this inference and showed that the first 18 N‐terminal amino acids of the mature HCF136 protein form a hydrophobic patch, while the remainder of the protein is entirely hydrophilic. Fractionation of the thylakoid membranes into subdomains by aqueous two‐phase partitioning (CITATION) revealed further that the HCF136 protein is located in stromal, and not in granal, thylakoids (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] The above experiments did not allow us to deduce at which site of the thylakoids the HCF136 protein is located. To obtain this information protease digestion experiments were carried out. Thylakoid membranes were isolated as gently as possible and incubated with thermolysin, a protease that is commonly used in in vitro import experiments to probe the translocation of proteins through membranes (CITATION). FIG-REF shows that the HCF136 protein, like the 23 and 34 kDa lumenal subunits of PSII, is protected from protease treatment. As expected, ferredoxin NADP oxidoreductase and the PsaD subunit of PSI, both of which are attached to the stromal site of the thylakoids, are rapidly degraded by thermolysin. When inside‐out thylakoid vesicles were produced by sonication and the mixture of outside‐out and inside‐out vesicles was incubated with thermolysin, both the HCF136 and the two lumenal PSII subunits were no longer resistant to protease digestion (FIG-REF). It follows that the HCF136 protein has a similar accessibility to thermolysin as the 23 and 34 kDa extrinsic PSII subunits. Hence, it should be located in the same compartment, i.e. the thylakoid lumen. A lumenal location of the HCF136 protein can also be inferred from the bipartite structure of the transit peptide (FIG-REF) which is similar to that of other lumenal proteins (CITATION). [[FIGURE]] The mutational analysis had indicated that the HCF136 protein is absolutely required for the stable accumulation of all PSII subunits that were investigated in this study. This suggested that the HCF136 protein should be available in plastids when the PSII complex is built up. To test this inference, the biogenesis of PSII was investigated during light‐induced greening of etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings and compared with the accumulation of the HCF136 protein. The pigment‐binding PSII subunits D1 and CP47 cannot be detected in etiolated seedlings, they appear after ∼24 h of illumination (FIG-REF). In contrast, cytochrome b559 and the 34 kDa PSII subunit accumulate in the dark, but there is a further light‐induced increase in steady‐state levels in parallel to that of D1 and CP47. The biogenesis of PSII in Arabidopsis is thus comparable with that of spinach and shows the same stepwise accumulation of its subunits (CITATION). The accumulation pattern of the HCF136 protein is similar to that of cytochrome b559 and the 34 kDa protein, i.e. the protein accumulates already in dark‐grown seedlings. HCF136 protein levels increase after prolonged periods of illumination, but this light‐induced increase is much less pronounced than that of cytochrome b559 and the 34 kDa PSII subunit. Taken together these data suggest that the HCF136 protein has to be present prior to, or at least concomitantly with, the accumulation of the core subunits of the PSII complex. Thus, both the mutational and the biogenetic analyses point to the HCF136 protein as being a central component for the assembly and/or stability of PSII. [[FIGURE]]
!~MM~! Surface‐sterilized seeds of A.thaliana were sown on Petri dishes containing 0.3% (w/v) solidified Gelrite (Roth, Karlsruhe, Germany) supplemented with 0.5× MS nutrients (CITATION) and 2% (w/v) sucrose. In mutant selection experiments kanamycin was added to a final concentration of 70 mg/l. Seed germination was synchronized by placing the plates after sowing for 48 h at 4°C. Seedlings were grown with a 16 h photoperiod at a photon flux density (PFD) of ∼20–50 μmol/m2/s and at a constant temperature of 23°C. The hcf136 mutation was identified in a collection of T‐DNA insertion mutants (CITATION). Mutants exhibiting the high chlorophyll fluorescence phenotype were initially selected in the dark under a strongand long‐wavelength UV light (Bachofer, Reutlingen, Germany) as described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION). Since hcf136 seedlings were found to be lethal, the mutation was maintained in the heterozygous state. For production of seeds, heterozygous seedlings were selected with kanamycin and then grown to maturity on soil in continuous light at 80 μmol/m2/s using the Arasystem (Beta Tech, Gent, Belgium). Chlorophyll a fluorescence measurements were performed with 3‐week‐old plants using the pulse amplitude modulated fluorometer PAM 101/103 (Walz, Effeltrich, Germany; CITATION). For recording P700 absorbance changes, the PAM fluorometer was equipped with an ED 800 T emitter detector unit (Walz, Effeltrich, Germany) and the measurements were carried out as described (CITATION). Chlorophyll fluorescence changes at 77 K were measured with a fluorometer (F‐3010; Hitashi, Tokyo, Japan) interphased with a personal computer for data collection (CITATION) as described in CITATION. Leaves from 3‐week‐old mutant and wild‐type plants which had been cultivated on sterile media were cut into 1 mm pieces and simultaneously fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde and 1% OsO4 in 0.05 M cacodylate buffer pH 7.0, for 2 h at 4°C. Dehydration in graded ethanol series and embedding in Epon 812 followed standard procedures. Ultrathin sections were cut with a diamond knife and mounted on single‐hole grids covered with Pioloform/Formvar. They were double‐stained with 1% aqueous uranyl acetate (30 min) followed by lead citrate (5–10 min) and viewed under a Philips electron microscope EM 301. Electrophoresis of crude leaf proteins (CITATION) in sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels was carried out according to CITATION. The separated proteins were visualized by silver‐staining (CITATION). Radiolabelled proteins were detected by fluorography (CITATION). Proteins to be analysed by immunodecoration were transferred to nitrocellulose membranes (PH 79, 0.1 μm; Schleicher and Schüll, Dassel, Germany), incubated with specific antibodies (CITATION), and visualized by the enhanced chemiluminescence technique as described by the manufacturer (Amersham Buchler, Braunschweig, Germany). Primary leaves of 12‐day‐old mutant and wild‐type seedlings were vacuum‐infiltrated in 50 μl reaction medium containing 1 mM KH2PO4 pH 6.3, 0.1 % (w/v) Tween 20, 50 μCi [35S]methionine (specific activity >1000 Ci/mmol; Amersham Buchler, Braunschweig, Germany) and 20 μg/ml cycloheximide. After 15 min incubation at 25°C in ambient light the leaves were washed twice with 500 μl [20 mM KH2PO4, 10 mM dithiothreitol (DTT)]. To isolate thylakoid membranes, the leaves were ground with a conical stainless steel rod fitting into the bottom of an Eppendorf tube, and the homogenate was then centrifuged for 10 min at 15 000 r.p.m. The pelleted membranes were washed once and finally resuspended in 100 mM Na2CO3, 10% (w/v) sucrose and 50 mM DTT. Trichloroacetic acid‐insoluble radioactivity was measured according to CITATION. Northern analysis of total leaf RNA by using DNA or RNA probes was carried out as described (CITATION; CITATION). Strand‐specific RNA probes for the hybridization of plastid transcripts were obtained by run‐off transcription using the appropriate phage RNA polymerases (CITATION), while the probes for nuclear RNAs were labelled by random priming of the corresponding DNA fragments (CITATION). The hybridization probes used are listed in CITATION and CITATION. Genomic sequences flanking the T‐DNA right border were amplified by using inverse PCR (CITATION). Genomic DNA of hcf136 was isolated from frozen tissue (CITATION) and digested with the enzymes HhaI or SspI. After self‐ligation and digestion with SacII, genomic sequences were amplified by PCR following standard protocols including 20 μM of each primer: R1, 5′‐ATG AGC TAA GCA CAT ACG TCA G‐3′; R2, 5′‐GCG CGT TCA AAA GTG GCC TA‐3′; F1, 5′‐GTG GCT CCT TCA ATC GTT GCG G‐3′; F2, 5′‐CTT GTC GTT TCC CGC CTT CAG‐3′. PCR amplification of the SspI‐digested DNA with primers F1/R1 resulted in a 1280 bp product, while amplification of the HhaI‐digested DNA with the same primers yielded a 2150 bp DNA fragment. The amplified products were cloned into the EcoRV site of Bluescript II KS+ (Stratagene, La Jolla, USA) resulting in clones pnAt136‐1 (containing the 1280 bp fragment) and pnAt136–2 (containing the 2150 bp fragment). Both clones were sequenced. A cDNA library prepared from RNA of the aerial parts of Arabidopsis plants, ecotype Columbia (supplied by the E.U. Stock Center, Max‐Planck‐Institut für Züchtungsforschung, Köln, Germany) was screened with a 530 bp DraI genomic restriction fragment, which was excised from the cloned inverse PCR product and located adjacent to the right border of the inserted T‐DNA. Approximately 1.5×106 plaques were analysed under stringent hybridization conditions, resulting in 94 positive signals. Twenty‐two phages were purified by plaque hybridization. Eight of them were confirmed as positive and partially sequenced. The largest clone identified, pcAt136‐28, was completely sequenced on both strands (CITATION) using a nested set of unidirectional deletions (CITATION) or HCF136‐specific synthetic oligonucleotides. Nucleic acid and protein sequences were analysed with the programmes MacMolly Tetra (Softgene GmbH, Bocholt, Germany) and CLUSTAL W (CITATION). The BLAST server (CITATION) of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (Bethesda, MD) was used for database searches. The HCF136 cDNA insert of pcAt136‐28 was ligated into the plant expression vector pPCV91 (CITATION) under the control of the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S promoter, and the construct was transformed into homozygous mutant plants using a root transformation protocol (CITATION) with minor alterations: the roots were obtained from 2‐week‐old mutant seedlings grown in tissue culture, and the hygromycin concentration was reduced to 10 mg/l to allow the growth of transgenic tissue. Fourteen independent transgenic plants were recovered. They were easily distinguished from regenerated non‐transformed hcf136 mutants due to their fully green appearance. The successful complementation was confirmed by chlorophyll fluorescence measurements. In addition, the presence of the transgene within the complemented mutant seedlings was verified by PCR using two sets of primers that specifically allowed the amplification of HCF136 cDNA fragments. The nucleotide sequence encoding the entire mature HCF136 protein without the transit peptide part (nucleotide positions 264–1252 of pcAt136‐28) was amplified by PCR. The 5′ and 3′ primers contained a BamHI or a XhoI restriction site, respectively, for in‐frame fusion with the glutathione S‐transferase sequence of the pGEX‐4T3 expression vector (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden). The amplification product was restricted with BamHI and XhoI, purified by agarose gel electrophoresis, and inserted into pGEX‐4T3. The construct was introduced into the expression host E.coli strain BL21(DE3)pLysE by transformation, and expression was induced with 1 mM isopropylthio‐β‐d‐galactoside. Recombinant clones expressing a protein of the expected size of 62 kDa were selected and a crude protein extract was prepared by sonicating the bacteria suspended in 50 mM Tris–HCl pH 7.9, 0.1 M NaCl, 0.1 mM EDTA, 0.01% (w/v) Triton X‐100. The protein extract was clarified by centrifugation, and the supernatant was incubated with glutathione–Sepharose 4B (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech, Uppsala, Sweden) at 4°C overnight. After extensive washing, the recombinant glutathione S‐transferase HCF136 fusion protein was cleaved with thrombin as described by the manufacturer (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech), and the released HCF136 protein was purified by preparative polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A polyclonal antiserum was raised in rabbits by BioGenes (Berlin, Germany) and further purified by affinity chromatography on a HCF136 protein column. The specificity of the antiserum was tested by immunoblotting with purified HCF136 fusion protein and crude protein extracts were prepared from wild‐type and mutant leaves. Intact chloroplasts were isolated from 2‐week‐old Arabidopsis wild‐type plants or greenhouse‐grown spinach by Percoll gradient centrifugation essentially as described (CITATION). Chloroplasts were lysed in ice‐cold 10 mM HEPES–KOH pH 8.0, 10 mM MgCl2, and stromal and membrane proteins were separated by 10 min centrifugation at 17 000 g. To test for the association of the HCF136 protein with membranes Na2CO3 (200 mM final concentration) was added to the suspension of lysed chloroplasts, and stromal and membrane proteins were recovered by centrifugation as above. Thylakoid and envelope membranes were separated from each other by rupturing intact chloroplasts by freezing and thawing in hypertonic medium, followed by sucrose density gradient centrifugation (CITATION). The two chloroplast membrane fractions were identified by their pigment content. Thylakoid membranes were fractionated into stroma lamellae, grana cores and grana margins as described (CITATION). The intraorganellar location of the HCF136 protein was further studied by protease protection experiments using thermolysin as a probe (CITATION). Thylakoid membrane proteins from spinach prepared as above were adjusted to a chlorophyll concentration of 50 μg/ml. A mixture of inside‐out and outside‐out thylakoid vesicles was prepared by sonicating thylakoid membranes for 45 s at 0°C. The sonifier used (Branson Sonifier B12, Danbury, USA) was equipped with a microtip and the output was set to 3. Thermolysin (0.1 mg/ml final concentration) was added to both membrane preparations and incubation was continued at room temperature. Aliquots were removed from the assays after varying times of incubation and the thermolysin activity was stopped by adding EDTA to a final concentration of 50 mM. Gel electrophoretic and immunoblot analysis of the protein samples was carried out as above. The HCF136 homologues of cyanobacteria (slr2034) and Cyanophora paradoxa (ORF333) have recently been renamed ycf48 [Stoebe,B., Martin,W. and Kowallik,K.V. (1998) Distribution and nomenclature of protein‐coding genes in 12 sequenced chloroplast genomes. Plant Mol. Biol. Rep., in press].
