!~ABS~! Arabidopsis COP1 acts as a repressor of photomorphogenesis in darkness, and light stimuli abrogate the repressive ability and nuclear abundance of COP1. COP1 has three known structural modules: an N‐terminal RING‐finger, followed by a predicted coiled‐coil and C‐terminal WD‐40 repeats. A systematic study was undertaken to dissect the functional roles of these three COP1 domains in light control of Arabidopsis seedling development. Our data suggest that COP1 acts primarily as a homodimer, and probably dimerizes through the coiled‐coil domain. The RING‐finger and the coiled‐coil domains can function independently as light‐responsive modules mediating the light‐controlled nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of COP1. The C‐terminal WD‐40 domain functions as an autonomous repressor module since the overexpression of COP1 mutant proteins with intact WD‐40 repeats are able to suppress photomorphogenic development. This WD‐40 domain‐mediated repression can be at least in part accounted for by COP1's direct interaction with and negative regulation of HY5, a bZIP transcription factor that positively regulates photomorphogenesis. However, COP1 self‐association is a prerequisite for the observed interaction of the COP1 WD‐40 repeats with HY5. This work thus provides a structural basis of COP1 as a molecular switch.
!~RES~! We have reported that the N282 fragment of COP1, which contains both the RING‐finger and Coil regions, possesses the ability to interact with the full‐length COP1 in a yeast two‐hybrid system, implying that COP1 may function as a homodimer or multimer (CITATION). To understand better the COP1 self‐association, we performed a chemical cross‐linking analysis of in vitro translated COP1 protein in solution. An epitope‐tagged FLAG‐COP1 protein was translated in vitro and then cross‐linked with either dimethylsuberimidate (DSub) or ethylene glycobis (succinimidylsuccinate) (EGS). FIG-REF shows monomeric FLAG‐COP1 (78 kDa) and the cross‐linked products resolved by SDS–PAGE and detected by fluorography. Cross‐linking with either Dsub or EGS generated a band with an apparent molecular size of ∼160 kDa, clearly indicating dimer formation in vitro (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To confirm the presence of COP1 dimers in vivo, a gel‐filtration analysis was performed using protein extracts from light‐ or dark‐grown Arabidopsis wild‐type seedlings. As shown in FIG-REF, the endogenous Arabidopsis COP1 protein fraction peaked at the ∼160 kDa region, very close to the size of the cross‐linked dimer in vitro. However, the COP1 peak was very broad and contained a broad shoulder toward the larger molecular size fractions (FIG-REF). Therefore it is possible that a portion of COP1 may present as homo‐oligomers or in heterogeneous associations with other molecules in vivo. Further, the limited resolution of the gel filtration cannot rule out the presence of a minor amount of COP1 as monomer, since the shoulder of the COP1 peak at the side of smaller molecular weight extended toward the 70 kDa region. Although the relative amount and distribution of the COP1 doublet bands (due to partial degradation in the extracts) is somewhat variable from experiment to experiment, the gel‐filtration profiles of both the light‐ and dark‐grown seedlings were essentially identical (FIG-REF), indicating that light does not affect COP1 self‐association in vivo. To delimit further the COP1 dimerization domain within the N282 fragment of COP1, a series of deletion mutants of N282 were constructed and analyzed using the yeast two‐hybrid assay (FIG-REF). The result indicates that the Coil domain of COP1 was shown to be both necessary and sufficient for self‐association (FIG-REF, C3, C4, C7–12, C10). However, the deletion of the Coil from the N282 fragment still retained some weak and reproducible interactions slightly higher than those of negative controls (see FIG-REF, C1–C4), suggesting the presence of residual COP1 self‐association within the rest of the N‐terminal region. The RING‐finger domain seems responsible for this residual activity since this domain showed weak interaction with itself (FIG-REF, C5). A supportive role for the RING‐finger in COP1 intramolecular association became evident among the constructs with an intact C‐terminus (FIG-REF, C11–C14): deletion of the Coil domain still retained a weak interaction (FIG-REF, C13), while the deletion of both the RING‐finger and the Coil domains completely abolished the interaction (FIG-REF, C14). The disruption of the WD‐40 repeats also perturbed the intramolecular interaction (FIG-REF, C15), possibly due to a conformational hindrance caused by a misfolded WD‐40 repeats domain. Protein gel immunoblot analysis did not reveal any significant differences in expression levels of those domain‐deletion constructs (data not shown). Thus, it rules out the possibility that the different activities in the yeast two‐hybrid interaction assay were caused by different expression levels of the proteins. If the Coil domain has a major role for COP1 dimerization, it may represent the domain primarily responsible for the observed dominant‐negative phenotype in N282‐overexpressing plants (CITATION). To test this possibility, transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing two N‐terminal COP1 mutant forms under the strong CaMV35S promoter were generated. As shown in FIG-REF, NΔRING and NΔCoil are essentially the N282 fragment of COP1 lacking the RING‐finger or the Coil domain, respectively. Protein gel immunoblot analysis with anti‐COP1 antibody of three representative NΔRING and NΔCoil transgenic lines suggested that all lines accumulated transgene products at comparable or higher levels than that of the N282 overexpressors (FIG-REF; CITATION). In all transgenic lines examined, the level of the endogenous COP1 protein appeared to be unaltered (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] Transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings were examined under different light conditions and in darkness (FIG-REF). The overexpression of NΔRING conferred a dramatic reduction in hypocotyl length when seedlings were grown under continuous white, far‐red, red and blue light (FIG-REF). In addition, NΔRING seedlings displayed an excessive accumulation of anthocyanin in the upper hypocotyls (see FIG-REF). Furthermore, the overexpression of NΔRING as well as N282 led to ectopic chloroplast differentiation in seedling roots (FIG-REF). Hence, the overexpression of the NΔRING is sufficient to impair the endogenous COP1 function and to enhance the light signaling mediated by multiple photoreceptors. In contrast to the NΔRING overexpressors, NΔCoil overexpressors did not confer any visible phenotypes, indicating that the RING‐finger domain itself is insufficient for causing any dominant‐negative effects (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Although some NΔCoil overexpressors (lines 2 and 3, FIG-REF) contain partially degraded forms (FIG-REF), they could not be the cause for the lacking of the phenotype in those NΔCoil overexpressors since other lines (such as line 1) do not contain the same partial degradation products and also exhibit no phenotype. [[FIGURE]] The NΔRING overexpressors did not show any de‐etiolation phenotype in darkness (FIG-REF). Since the overexpression of N282 conferred a partial de‐etiolation in darkness (CITATION), it seems to indicate that an effective functional interference with the endogenous COP1 in darkness requires the additional RING‐finger domain. A supportive role for the RING‐finger in COP1 dimerization (FIG-REF) is consistent with this observation. Light signals negatively regulate COP1 abundance in the nucleus (CITATION; CITATION). In darkness, GUS–COP1, a full‐length COP1 fused to a reporter β‐glucuronidase, predominantly localizes in the nucleus, but the transfer of seedlings from dark to light reduces nuclear abundance of GUS–COP1 (CITATION). To identify the domain(s) that mediates the light responsiveness of COP1, the subcellular localizations of the fusion proteins of GUS fusions with COP1 deletion mutants were examined. For this purpose, the GUS protein was fused to the N‐terminus of the COP1 fragments that lack either the RING‐finger (GUS–ΔRING), or the Coil (GUS–ΔCoil), or both RING‐finger and Coil (GUS–ΔRΔC), or the RING‐finger and the last repeat of the WD‐40 motif (GUS–ΔRΔG4). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants that express the four constructs under the CaMV 35S promoter were produced and examined. FIG-REF shows representative GUS staining patterns in hypocotyl cells of dark‐ or light‐grown transgenic Arabidopsis. In darkness, all GUS fusion constructs localized in the nucleus and in a similar manner to that described for GUS–COP1 (CITATION), suggesting that the NLS remains functional in all the mutated forms of COP1. This result is consistent with a site‐directed mutagenesis study that revealed that the COP1 NLS is contained within amino acids 293–314 (A.G.von Arnim, personal communication). When seedlings were grown under high‐intensity continuous white light (150 μmol/m2/s), GUS–ΔRING, GUS–ΔCoil and GUS–ΔRΔG4 chimeric proteins were excluded from the nucleus (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). In contrast, GUS–ΔRΔC displayed a constitutive nuclear localization in hypocotyl cells (FIG-REF), as well as in cotyledon epidermis and mesophyll cells of light‐grown seedlings (data not shown). The data suggests that while the deletion of the RING finger or the Coil alone does not significantly affect the light‐activated nuclear depletion of COP1, deletion of both domains clearly compromises light regulation of COP1 nucleocytoplasmic partitioning. [[FIGURE]] To reveal the function of the WD‐40 repeats, we first generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing only the COP1 C‐terminal region (amino acids 283–675) which contains the entire WD‐40 repeats. All transgenic lines with this construct failed to accumulate any detectable amount of the mutated COP1 (data not shown). Therefore, we generated a new set of COP1 domain deletion constructs which specifically lack the RING‐finger (ΔRING) or the Coil (ΔCoil), or both (ΔRΔC), in the full‐length COP1 context and are driven by the CaMV 35S promoter (FIG-REF). As a negative control, a construct that lacks the last repeat of the WD‐40 motif in addition to the RING finger deletion (ΔRΔG4) was also generated. The RING‐finger was not included in this control construct, since its deletion does not influence the effect mediated by WD‐40 repeats (see later). As shown in FIG-REF, protein gel immunoblot analysis of ΔRING, ΔCoil, ΔRΔC and ΔRΔG4 overexpressors indicated that all COP1 mutant forms accumulate to similar levels and that their expression does not affect the level of endogenous COP1. Therefore, the severity of the phenotypes is most likely due to the effectiveness of the mutated forms of COP1. [[FIGURE]] Seedling phenotypes of the ΔRING, ΔCoil, ΔRΔC and ΔRΔG4 overexpressors were examined under continuous white, blue and far‐red light conditions. As shown in FIG-REF and FIG-REF, ΔRING seedlings displayed long hypocotyl phenotypes in all light conditions tested, similar to that of the full‐length COP1 overexpressor (CITATION). ΔCoil seedlings displayed a subtle but statistically significant hy phenotype only under blue light (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). This weak but reproducible phenotype in the ΔCoil line is consistent with the fact that deletion of the Coil domain still retains a weak self‐association in the yeast (FIG-REF, C11–C14). Thus, the RING‐finger seems dispensable, while the Coil is important but not essential for repressing seedling photomorphogenic development in our transgenic assay. The effect of ΔRING overexpression was completely abolished by an additional disruption of WD‐40 repeats (ΔRΔG4), indicating a critical role for the intact WD‐40 repeat domain in repressing photomorphogenic development. ΔRΔC did not confer any detectable phenotypes under any light conditions tested (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Thus, the C‐terminal WD‐40 domain alone is not self‐sufficient for conferring the repressive activity of photomorphogenesis. [[FIGURE]] [[FIGURE]] Since the Coil domain mediates COP1 self‐association, the involvement of the Coil domain in repressing seedling photomorphogenesis may be due simply to this structural role. If this is the case, the addition of a new self‐association domain to the COP1 ΔCoil mutants may compensate the defects caused by the Coil domain deletion. To test this hypothesis, we examined phenotypic effects of the GUS fusion series with COP1 and its mutated forms, since the GUS protein is capable of self‐tetramerization (CITATION). As shown previously, GUS–COP1 overexpression confers a long hypocotyl phenotype similar to the full‐length COP1 overexpressors (CITATION; CITATION). While GUS–ΔRING and ΔRING overexpressors conferred a similar degree of long hypocotyl phenotype, GUS–ΔCoil and GUS–ΔRΔC overexpressors exhibited enhanced seedling longhypocotyl phenotypes compared with the ΔCoil and ΔRΔC overexpressors (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). Protein gel blot analysis did not reveal significant differences in the accumulation of transgene products among GUS–ΔCoil, GUS–ΔRΔC, ΔCoil and ΔRΔC transgenic lines (data not shown). Therefore, our results suggest that fusing a GUS protein can somehow restore the defects of ΔCoil and ΔRΔC in repressing photomorphogenesis, probably by providing a new self‐association function replacing that of the Coil motif. In contrast, GUS–ΔRΔG4 overexpressors failed to restore long hypocotyl phenotypes (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), suggesting that the function of the WD‐40 repeats cannot be compensated for by the GUS fusion. Therefore, we propose that the WD‐40 repeat domain plays a direct role in mediating the repression of photomorphogenesis, while the Coil domain provides the dimerization function of COP1 that is a prerequisite for the proper function of the WD‐40 repeats. COP1 represses photomorphogenic development by directly interacting and negatively regulating specific transcription factors that are responsible for promoting photomorphogenic development (CITATION; CITATION). Since HY5 plays a role in the light regulation of hypocotyl elongation, we examined whether the repressive effect of COP1 is mediated through HY5 and whether the WD‐40 repeat domain of COP1 is responsible for the regulatory protein–protein interaction. As shown in FIG-REF, the strength of the interaction of HY5 and a series of COP1 domain deletion mutants in the yeast two‐hybrid assay is directly correlated to the hypocotyl length conferred by the overexpression of the corresponding COP1 mutant forms (FIG-REF and FIG-REF). For example, HY5 showed a similar degree of interaction with full‐length COP1 and ΔRING, reduced interaction with ΔCoil and no interaction with ΔRΔC or ΔRΔG4 (FIG-REF). [[FIGURE]] To examine the specific roles of the WD‐40 repeats and the Coil domains in mediating the COP1 and HY5 interaction, we further analyzed HY5 interactions with the GUS–ΔRΔC mutant. Similar to the observed phenotypic effects of GUS–ΔRΔC and ΔRΔC in transgenic seedlings (FIG-REF and FIG-REF), the GUS–ΔRΔC fusion protein restored the ability of the COP1 mutant form to interact with HY5 (FIG-REF). The result further substantiated the notion that the C‐terminal WD‐40 repeats of COP1 play a direct role in mediating interaction with HY5 while the dimerization of COP1, which is mediated by the Coil domain, is required for this interaction.
!~MM~! Plant growth conditions were exactly as described by CITATION unless otherwise described in the text. Full‐length COP1, N282 and ΔRING overexpressors are in the No‐O ecotype, and all other transgenic plants are Columbia ecotype. Wild‐type seedlings of both ecotypes were used as controls, while only one (Columbia unless stated otherwise) is shown in most Figures. To optimize phenotype examination, light intensities were changed in some experiments as described in the text. To facilitate the further cloning procedures, all of the COP1 domain‐deletion constructs were first cloned into the modified pBluescript KS vector (pKSm; CITATION). pKS–ΔRING was constructed by replacing the BamHI–XbaI fragment of pKS–COP1 with that of pMALΔZn (CITATION). pKS–ΔRING was cleaved with BamHI and MscI, and inserted into pKS–N282 (CITATION) to generate pKS–NΔRING. To construct pKS–NΔCoil, two sets of primers, T7 and CCNT3 (5′ CCG CTC GAG CCG AAA CTG ATC CAA GGG CGA 3′), and CCCT5 (5′ CCG CTC GAG AAG TTG CGG ATG CTC GGA GA 3′) and T3, were used to amplify the coding regions N‐terminal (amino acids 1–127) and C‐terminal (amino acids 216–282) of the Coil domain, respectively. Both fragments were cloned into the pKSm vector to generate pKS–ΔC.nt and pKS–ΔC.ct, respectively. pKS–ΔC.nt insert was cleaved by XhoI and inserted into the XhoI‐digested pKS–ΔC.ct to generate pKS–NΔCoil. To generate pKS–NΔΔ, the PCR was performed using NΔRING as a template with a primer combination T7 and NT–Sal3 (5′ A CGC GTC GAC CCC AAA CTG ATC CAA GGG CGA 3′). The amplified fragment was cloned into the pKSm vector to generate pKS–ΔΔ.nt. pKS–ΔΔ.nt was cut with SalI, and the released fragment was inserted into the XhoI‐cleaved pKSΔC.ct to generate pKS–NΔΔ. The BamHI–MscI fragments of pKS–NΔCoil and pKS–NΔΔ were replaced with that of pKS–COP1 to generate pKS–ΔCoil and pKS–ΔΔ, respectively. To generate pKS–Coil and pKS–RING, the PCR was performed using pKS–N282 as a template with primer combinations Coil5 (5′ CAT GCC ATG GAT AAG CTA TTG AAG AAA ACT 3′) and Coil3 (5′ CCG CTC GAG TTA GTC CCT AGC TCG GTA TAA ATC 3′), or RING5 (5′ CAT GCC ATG GTT GGT GAA GGT GCT AAT CGT 3′) and RING3 (5′ CCG CTC GAG TTA TGA CAC ATG CCG AGC TGA AGT 3′), respectively. The amplified fragements were digested with NcoI and XhoI, and inserted into pKSm. For pKS–Coil and pKS–RING, leucine at 104 and serine at position 21, respectively, were replaced with methionine. The sequences of all clones constructed using the PCR methods have been confirmed by sequencing the resulting clones. pKS–cop1‐10 was generated by replacing the XbaI and XhoI‐digested fragment with that of pTA–fus1‐4 (CITATION). The BamHI–XbaI fragment of pKS–cop1‐10 was then replaced with that of pKS–ΔRING to generate pKS–ΔRΔG4, which lacks the RING‐finger and the last repeat of WD‐40. To construct a 35S–ΔRING expression cassette, pMALΔZn was digested with EagI and HindIII, end‐blunted with Klenow enzyme and used to replace the GUS gene in pRTL2–GUS (CITATION). The GUS gene was excised from pRTL2–GUS by cutting the plasmid with NcoI and BamHI, and blunt‐ended with Klenow. 35S–ΔRING expression constructs were ligated as HindIII fragments into the binary plant transformation vector pBIN19. Arabidopsis plants of the No‐O ecotype were transformed using the tissue culture procedure as described in CITATION. For 35S–ΔCoil, 35S–ΔRΔC and 35S–ΔRΔG4, the corresponding pKSm cassettes were cleaved with NcoI and BglII, and ligated into the NcoI and BamHI‐digested pRTL2–GUS. For 35S–NΔRING and 35S–NΔCoil, the corresponding pKSm cassettes were digested with NcoI and EcoRV, and ligated into the pRTL2–GUS vector, which had been cut with BamHI, end‐blunted and recut with NcoI. For 35S–GUS ΔRING, 35S–GUS ΔCoil, 35S–GUS ΔΔ 35S–GUS ΔRΔG4, the corresponding pKSm cassettes were cleaved with BglII and ligated into the BglII and BamHI‐cleaved pRTL2–GUSNIaΔBam. These pRTL cassettes were then cleaved with either HindIII or PstI and ligated into pPZP222 (CITATION). The resulting clones were then electroporated into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 (pMP90). Arabidopsis plants of ecotype Columbia were transformed by the vacuum infiltration method (CITATION). ΔRING transgenic seedlings were selected with Kanamycin (40 μg/ml; Sigma) and transgenic seedlings for the rest of all constructs were selected with Gentamycin (100 μg/ml; Sigma). Five, five, seven, nine, seven and five independent transgenic lines for 35S::NΔRING, 35S::ΔRING, 35S::NΔCoil, 35S::ΔCoil, 35S::ΔRΔC and 35S::ΔRΔG4, respectively, were confirmed for a single T‐DNA insertion and accumulation of the transgene products (data not shown). For COP1 localization analysis, four, five, three and three independent lines for GUS–ΔRING, GUS–ΔCoil, GUS–ΔRΔC and GUS–ΔRΔG4, respectively, were confirmed for a single T‐DNA insertion, GUS activity and for the accumulation of the transgene products (data not shown). For those transgenic lines with phenotypes, the co‐segregation of the phenotype and the transgenes were established by a previous procedure (CITATION). Either T3 seedlings homozygous for the transgene or T2 seedlings displaying antibiotic resistance were used for analysis. T2 seeds of one GUS–ΔCoil (line 8) and three GUS–ΔRΔC lines segregated one‐quarter of fusca phenotype seedlings (data not shown). They displayed extreme accumulation of anthocyanins, as do COP1 strong or lethal alleles, and often failed to survive (data not shown). All fusca seedlings were gentamycin resistant and had extremely reduced levels of the GUS activity and the transgene accumulation (data not shown). Thus, cosuppression events were suspected for these fusca seedlings. A consistent 1:2:1 segregation at T2 and T3 generations for gentamycin‐sensitive (wild‐type):gentamycin‐resistant (overexpressor):gentamycin‐resistant (cosuppressor) suggests a dosage‐dependent mechanism for cosuppression (data not shown). However, this phenomenon was not studied further, since it was not the primary object of our research. For GUS–ΔRΔC lines, overexpressors that comprise one‐half of the T2 population were used for further analysis. pKS–RING and pKS–Coil were digested with EcoRI and XhoI, and the rest of the COP1 domain cassettes in the pKSm vectors were digested with EcoRI. Fragments were then ligated into pEG202 or pJG4‐5 to generate COP1 domains fused to the LexA DNA binding protein or the synthetic activation domain, respectively (CITATION). Generation of pEG–N282, pJG–N282, pJG–COP1 and pJG–ΔRING was described elsewhere (CITATION; CITATION). To generate pJG–GUS–ΔRΔC, pRTL–GUS–ΔRΔC was cleaved with NcoI and XbaI and then ligated into NcoI/XbaI‐digested pKS–COP1. The resultant plasmid was cleaved with EcoRI and inserted into pJG4‐5. Transformation of yeast strain EGY48‐0 (CITATION) with bait, prey and reporter plasmids (pSH18‐34), and subsequent β‐galactosidase activity assay was performed as described in CITATION. For unknown reasons, we could not stably express LexA–COP1 protein, either under ADH or inducible GAL1 promoters (data not shown); therefore, we could not test the full‐length COP1–COP1 interaction in yeast. GUS cytochemical staining of Arabidopsis transformants was performed as described in CITATION. For the confocal laser scanning microscopy, freshly grown seedlings in GM plates under continuous white light were harvested and directly observed using a Bio‐Rad 1024 confocal microscope with the Rhodomin filter. Protein immunoblot analysis was performed exactly as described previously (CITATION). pAR‐COP1, a FLAG‐tagged COP1 that has an additional peptide, DDADTKDDDDK, at the N‐terminus (CITATION), was transcribed in vitro and translated using a reticulocyte lysate system (Promega) and radiolabeled with [35S]methionine (Amersham). For chemical cross‐linking, 2 μl of translation mix (with radiolabeled proteins) was diluted to 18 μl with a reaction buffer (100 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.7, 100 mM NaCl, 0.1 mM ZnSO4, 10% glycerol, 0.1% Nonidet P‐40, 4 mM DTT) and cross‐linked with 2 μl of freshly diluted Dsub or EGS in dimethyl sulfoxide. For a negative control, 2 μl of dimethyl sulfoxide was added to the reaction. After 20 min incubation at room temperature, the reaction was quenched by addition of 2 μl of 1 M glycine (for Dsub) or 200 mM lysine (for EGS) and 22 μl of 2× Laemmli SDS–PAGE buffer. Samples were boiled for 5 min, separated by 6% SDS–PAGE and fluorographed after treatment with Amplify (Amersham). For gel filtration chromatography, 8‐day‐old light‐ or dark‐grown seedlings were homogenized with 2× gel filtration buffer containing 50 mM Tris–HCl (pH 7.5), 440 mM NaCl, 2 mM MgCl2, 2 μM ZnSO4 and 0.5 mM PMSF, and centrifuged for 5 min at 4°C. Total soluble protein was fractionated through a 25 ml Superdex‐200 FPLC column (Pharmacia) with 1× gel filtration buffer at a flow rate of 0.5 ml/min. All procedures were carried out at 4°C and, for dark samples, under dim green safe light. Consecutive fractions of 0.5 ml each were collected after the void volume (7.5 ml), concentrated and subjected to 10% SDS–PAGE followed by a protein immunoblot analysis. The mol wt standards for size estimation of the native COP1 protein were as follows: blue dextran (void), thyroglobulin (669 kDa), ferritin (440 kDa), catalase (232 kDa), aldolase (158 kDa), BSA (67 kDa), ovalbumin (43 kDa) and ribonuclease A (13.7 kDa) (Sigma).
