!~ABS~! Previously, Arabidopsis thaliana was shown to possess a set of response regulators (ARR-series), which are implicated in the prokaryotic type of signal transduction mechanism, generally referred to as the His-Asp phosphorylay. Among them, ARR4 is a typical phospho-accepting response regulator, whose expression was recently demonstrated to be rapidly induced by a cytokinin-treatment of the plant. To gain insight into the presumed His-Asp phosphotransfer signaling mechanism as well as the role of ARR4 in this higher plant, in this study we adopt the widely used yeast two-hybrid system, and report the identification of an Arabidopsis protein that has an ability to interact physically with the cytokinin-inducible ARR4 response regulator.
!~RES~! As reported previously CITATION, the Arabidopsis response regulators, named ARR3 (231 amino acids) and ARR4 (259 amino acids) have a common receiver domain (about 140 amino acids each). In both the proteins, however, each receiver domain is followed by each unique C-terminal extension (see CITATION). The amino acid sequences of both the receiver domains are almost identical (90% identical and 7% similar), yet, those of the C-terminal extensions are quite divergent from each other (i.e. they exhibit virtually no homology, but, both the sequences are rich in proline, serine, glutamate, and aspartate residues). In the hope of searching Arabidopsis proteins that interact with these response regulators, the yeast two-hybrid system was adopted. The ARR3 coding sequence extending from Ser-8 to the C-terminal Ala-231 was connected to the GAL4 DNA-binding domain in pGBT9, to yield a bait vector (named pGBT9-ARR3). Similarly, the ARR4 coding sequence extending from Ser-8 to the C-terminal Asp-259 was appropriately placed in the vector, to yield another bait (named pGBT9-ARR4). An Arabidopsis cDNA-expression library was obtained, in which approximately 3×106 independent cDNA clones were connected to the GAL4 activation domain in the yeast vector pGAD10. An extensive two-hybrid screening was carried out with the yeast strain HF7c carrying both the GAL1-HIS3 and (GAL4 17-mers)3-CYC1-lacZ fusions on the genome, on the bases of the histidine-autotrophy as well as the LacZ-expression. The putative candidates (pGAD10-series), thus scored, were further selected in another strain SFY526 carrying the GAL1-lacZ fusion. Among 107 yeast transformants screened, no positive clone was obtained for pGBT9-ARR3. For GBT9-ARR4, however, we succeeded in isolating 13 positive clones, each of which was assumed to carry an Arabidopsis cDNA, whose translational product might interact with ARR4 in the yeast cells. The thirteen Arabidopsis cDNA clones were examined by restriction endonuclease digestion. The results showed that these cDNA inserts were classified into three distinct groups (three in Clone-A, six in Clone-B, and four in Clone-C). The members of each group were assumed to have each identical cDNA insert. In any case, all of them were analyzed by nucleotide sequencing. As the results, we identified three cDNA clones, which are distinctive from, but clearly related to, each other, as shown in CITATION . The cDNA insert of Clone-A corresponded to the almost entire coding sequence of the previously characterized Arabidopsis gene, called AtDBP (Arabidopsis thaliana DNA-binding protein) CITATION. The cDNA insert of Clone-B appears to be derived from the same AtDBP gene, although its 5′-portion corresponding to the N-terminal 54 amino acids is missing. Interestingly, the deduced amino acid sequence for Clone-C is highly homologous to that of AtDBP. This cDNA also appears to lack its 5′-portion, but note that its deduced amino acid sequence is 77% identical to that of AtDBP. Henceforth, the previously characterized AtDBP was designated as AtDBP1 (Clone-A and -B), whereas the newly identified homologue was designated as AtDBP2 (Clone-C). In any case, these results are convincing enough for us to believe that these fishes are not false positives, and that the identified AtDBPs may exhibit an ability to interact with ARR4. Thus, three representatives were characterized to demonstrate that they are indeed positive clones as far as the yeast two-hybrid analyses are concerned (CITATION A). The yeast strain HF7c carrying pGBT9-ARR4 and each one of the identified clones was streaked on appropriate agar-plates to examine the histidine-autotrophy, and the same cells were assayed for the β-galactosidase activity. The results clearly gave us a positive sign. We further analyzed the specificity of the presumed interaction between ARR4 and AtDBP1, by utilizing one of the clones (Clone-B, named pGAD10-AtDBP1-ΔN) (CITATIONB). To this end, we examined three different baits, pGBP9-ARR4, pGBP9-ARR4-ΔC, and pGBP9-ARR3, as schematically indicated in CITATIONB. In contrast to the case of ARR4, neither the intact ARR3 nor the truncated ARR4-ΔC lacking the C-terminal region were not functional, as judged by the histidine-autotrophy. These results suggested that the common (or highly conserved) receiver domain is not sufficient for the presumed ARR4-AtDBP1 interaction, and that the unique C-terminal region of ARR4 is responsible for the interaction (it is not known whether or not the C-terminal domain is sufficient). The N-terminal region of AtDBP1 may exhibit an inhibitory effect on the interaction, because Clone-A showed a poor ability, as conapred with Clone-B (see CITATIONA). It was critical to examine the presumed interaction between ARR4 and AtDBP1 by using an in vitro purified system. The entire coding sequence of ARR4 was introduced into an appropriate E. coli His-tag expression vector, whereas the coding sequence of AtDBP1-ΔN was C-terminally fused to the glutathione S-transferase (GST) coding sequence in an appropriate GST expression vector. The His-tagged ARR4 polypeptide was purified (CITATION A, lane 1). Similarly, the His-tagged ARR4-ΔC polypeptide lacking the C-terminal regions was also purified (lane 9). The GST-AtDBP1-ΔN fusion was expressed in E. coli, and then it was recovered in a crude soluble fraction of the E. coli lysate (lane 2). This crude lysate containing the GST-AtDBP1-ΔN fusion was first mixed with glutathione Sepharose 4B, in order to specifically retain the fusion on the resin. Then, the resin containing the GST-AtDBP1-ΔN fusion was incubated in the absence and presence of the purified ARR4 polypeptide (lanes 3 and 4, respectively). Finally, the GST-AtDBP1-ΔN fusion was specifically eluded from the resin with a buffer containing glutathione, in order to see if the ARR4 polypeptide was concomitantly released. The ARR4 polypeptide was identified by immunoblotting with an anti-ARR4 antiserum (CITATIONB). The results showed that ARR4 was clearly recovered with GST-AtDBP1-ΔN (lane 4). Also conducted were critical control experiments, which included the following: (a) incubation of the ARR4 polypeptide with the plain GST polypeptide (lane 7), (b) incubation of ARR4 alone without the GST-AtDBP1-ΔN fusion (lane 8), and (c) incubation of the ARR4-ΔC polypeptide with the GST-AtDBP1-ΔN fusion (lane 10). Taking all these results together, it was concluded that the ARR4 and AtDBP1 polypeptides are capable of interacting physically and specifically with each other under the certain in vitro conditions. The Arabidopsis gene encoding AtDBP1 was characterized almost a decade ago CITATION. Since then, no further study dealing with this particular gene has appeared. To gain insight into AtDBP1, therefore, it would be worth inspecting the AtDBP1 sequence on the bases of the currently available databases. Such an inspection of the GenBank database with the BLAST programs revealed the existence of a few more coding sequences, whose predicted amino acid sequences exhibit significant similarities to that of AtDBP1 (e.g. GenBank accession numbers gb:AB00524, gp:AF058919_21, gp:ATTS1209_1, and gp:AC002339_3). Nevertheless, they are not identical to the newly identified AtDBP2. This inspection suggested that this plant has several AtDBP homologues. The same inspection revealed a more intriguing fact that a potato protein, whose amino acid sequence is very similar to AtDBP1, has been reported previously (gb:STU72489) (CITATION ). This highly homologous potato protein was named `Remorin', and has been characterized biochemically CITATION. A further inspection of the current plant expression sequence tag (EST) databases revealed that several homologues occur in other higher plants, including tomato, saccharum, pisum, and rice, suggesting that the AtDBP homologues seem to be ubiquitous in higher plants (CITATION). It should be noted, however, that no homologous sequence was found in spices other than plants.
!~MM~! A kit for two-hybrid analysis (MATCHMAKER, Clontech) was obtained through TOYOBO Co. This kit contains all tools essential for two-hybrid screening. They include the vectors pGBT9 providing GAL4 DNA-binding domain (TRP1 marker), and pGAD10 providing GAL4 activation domain (LEU2 marker). They also include the yeast host strains HF7c carrying both the GAL1-HIS3 and (GAL4 17-mers)3-CYC1-lacZ reporters, and SFY526 carrying the GAL1-lacZ reporter. Procedures of the two-hybrid screening are essentially according to the manual supplied from the manufacturer of the kit. An Arabidopsis cDNA-expression library was obtained from Clontech, namely, Arabidopsis thaliana MATCHMAKER cDNA Library. cDNAs were prepared from mRNA of 3 weeks old green vegetative tissue of Arabidopsis (cv. Columbia). The following plasmids were constructed from pGBT9 (see above), namely, pGBT9-ARR3, pGBT9-ARR4, and pGBT9-ARR4-ΔC. Each coding sequence was prepared by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with an appropriate pair of primers: ARR3, 5′-CGGTCGACTTTCTTGTCTACGAAGGTCG and 5′-CACTGCAGTCTCTAAGCTAATCCGGGAC; ARR4, 5′-CGGTCGACTTTCTTGTTTACGAAGGTCG and 5′-ATACTGCAGCTAATCTAATCCGGGACTC; ARR-ΔC, 5′-TTGGATCCATATGAGCGTCGGTGGTATC and 5′-TAGGATCCTTCCGTTTGTTTCCGTTG. Each amplified DNA segment was ligated into the corresponding restriction sites in pGBT9. For a series of in vitro experiments, commercially available E. coli expression systems were used: one is the pET His-tag system (plasmid pET-22b+, Novagen), and the other is the GST gene fusion system (plasmid pGEX-4T-1, Novagen). To construct pET-ARR4-F, the almost entire ARR4 coding sequence was prepared by PCR with primers (5′-GGGGATCCATATGAGCGTCGGTGGTATCGGAGGA and 5′-CACGGATCCAATCCGGGACTCCTCATCTTCTGC). pET-ARR4-ΔC was constructed previously (formerly named pET-ARR4) CITATION. To construct pGEX4T-1-AtDBP-ΔN, pGEX-4T-1, which was derived from the cDNA-expression bank (see above), was digested with EcoRI digestion. This EcoRI fragment was ligated into the corresponding sites in pGEX40T-1. To isolate His-tagged polypeptides, the rapid affinity purification pET His-Tag system was used (Novagen), whereas, to isolate GST-fusions, Bulk and RediPack GST Purification Modules was used (Pharmacia Biotech). Other details were those recommended by each supplier.
