!~ABS~! The heat shock factor (HSF1) is the central regulator of the heat stress (hs) response and is required for stimulating the transcription of the hs genes and consequently the expression of heat shock proteins. To promote the polymerase II-dependent transcription of the hs genes, HSF has to communicate with the basal transcription machinery. Here, we report that the Arabidopsis thaliana HSF1 interacts directly with TBP, the general TATA box binding transcription factor, as shown by affinity chromatography and electrophoretic mobility shift analyses in vitro. An in vivo interaction between AtHSF1 and AtTBP1 was suggested by results employing the yeast two-hybrid system.
!~RES~! Affinity chromatography was employed to detect a possible direct in vitro interaction of plant HSF1 (AtHSF1) with the TATA box binding proteins AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 of Arabidopsis thaliana. A mock matrix was used to examine non-specific binding of AtHSF1, AtTBP1, AtTBP2, BSA and recombinant GUS, the latter two serving as negative controls (CITATION A, lanes 4–8). Except for BSA (lane 8), none of the proteins utilized was able to bind to this matrix. Recombinant AtHSF1 protein coupled to CnBr-activated Sepharose was then used as an affinity matrix from which specifically bound proteins were eluted by an increasing salt gradient. Both AtTBP isoforms were able to bind to AtHSF1 (CITATIONB, lanes 2,3,5,6). Interestingly, AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 appear to have different affinities for AtHSF1 (compare lane 2 with lane 5). 25% of AtTBP1, but only 10% of AtTBP2 total protein used in the binding assay bound to AtHSF1. Due to a lack of knowledge about structural differences and cellular functions of AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 the differences in their affinities for AtTBP1 for AtHSF1 cannot be explained at present. The complete lack of unspecifically bound AtTBP1, AtTBP2, and AtHSF1 proteins to the AtHSF1 matrix prior to elution was verified by inspection of the final washing steps (lanes 1,4,7). AtHSF1 specifically bound to the AtHSF1 matrix which was completely eluted using 0.6 M NaCl (lane 8). Considering initial protein amounts in the reaction, the binding efficiency was determined to be only 7%. Again, BSA showed a binding competence to the AtHSF1-Sepharose (lane 10), which was probably due to the high glycerol content of the BSA buffer. In EMSA analyses, we exploited the capacity of AtHSF1 to bind to consensus HSE and not to mutated HSE, leading to specific AtHSF1:HSE complexes (CITATION A, lanes 1,2). However, in the presence of equal stoichiometric amounts of AtTBP1 or AtTBP2 protein, these complexes are further retarded (lanes 3,5; marked by a single bar). To increase the separation of the formed protein:DNA complexes the remaining free DNA probes were allowed to exit the gel. In agreement with the data obtained in the binding studies described above, the formation of HSE:AtHSF1:AtTBP complexes was less prominent in the presence of AtTBP2 (CITATIONA; compare lane 3 with lane 5). The generation of these new complexes was not dependent on the order in which the components of the binding reaction were mixed and incubated. In the binding reactions loaded in lanes 3–6 (CITATIONA), preformation of AtHSF1:HSE complexes was allowed prior to the addition of AtTBP1 or AtTBP2 protein. Similar complexes were formed when AtHSF1 and AtTBP1 or AtTBP2 proteins were incubated prior to the addition of radiolabelled HSE (data not shown). The HSE:AtHSF1:AtTBP complexes were absent in reactions containing mutated HSE (lanes 4,6). It should be noted that in the binding reactions containing AtHSF1 and AtTBP1 or AtTBP2 proteins (except for the reaction containing AtHSF1, AtTBP2, and HSE; lane 5), an additional fast migrating complex appeared (CITATIONA, lanes 3,4,6; marked by a double bar). This complex can be attributed to the binding of AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 to mutated HSE, since identical complexes were observed in control experiments studying AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 binding to consensus and mutated HSE in the absence of AtHSF1 (CITATIONB). These data confirm the ability of AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 to bind to a TATAA-like sequence present in mutated HSE (lanes 2,4). As expected, AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 were unable to bind consensus HSE (lanes 1,3). A fast migrating complex in reactions containing AtHSF1, AtTBP1, and consensus HSE remains elusive (CITATIONA, lane 3). It seems possible that due to the observed higher affinity of AtHSF1 for AtTBP1 in comparison to AtTBP2, AtHSF1 might preferentially recruit AtTBP1 to bind to consensus HSE. As a result, a partial displacement of AtHSF1 from the complex could occur. However, it cannot be excluded that a minor fraction of contaminating E. coli proteins, which may co-purify with the His-tagged protein from Ni-NTR columns CITATION, accounts for the extra complex. AtHSF1 and a C-terminally truncated protein (AtHSF1–E388) were co-expressed with AtTBP1 in yeast auxotrophic for the selectable leucine marker. The expression of both AtHSF1 fusion proteins in the yeast was confirmed by Western analyses (data not shown). Full-length AtHSF1 expressing yeast showed a slow growth on medium lacking leucine and also expressed detectable levels of β-galactosidase activity (data not shown; CITATION , column 2), indicating an intrinsic potential to autoactivate the reporter genes. However, yeast co-expressing AtHSF1–E388 and AtTBP1 were able to grow on medium lacking leucine comparable to growth observed on medium containing leucine (CITATION A,B). The photometric inspection of both cultures in liquid medium revealed similar growth rates (stationary culture with OD600=2.3 is obtained after 30 h). In contrast, growth potential in the absence of leucine of yeast containing AtHSF1 and AtTBP1 fusion proteins was not significantly higher than growth of yeast containing only AtHSF1 (CITATIONC). This growth potential of the AtHSF1 strain can be attributed to the intrinsic capacity of AtHSF1 for autoactivation of the selection gene. On medium containing leucine, growth of AtHSF1 and AtTBP1 expressing yeast is not affected (CITATIOND). As a control, AtTBP1 was co-expressed with a transcriptionally inert fragment of the Drosophila Bicoid protein. On medium lacking leucine, no growth was observed (data not shown). To determine the relative strength of the two-hybrid interaction, the activity of expressed β-galactosidase was quantified (CITATION). Yeast expressing AtHSF1–E388 and AtTBP1 exhibited a 10-fold increase in lacZ reporter gene activation. The measured values for yeast containing AtHSF1 and AtTBP1 (column 5) and AtHSF1–E388 and AtTBP1 (column 6), respectively, were normalized for the weak intrinsic potential of AtHSF1 to stimulate the lacZ promoter (4.6 units β-galactosidase/cell) in the absence of AtTBP1. AtTBP1, AtHSF1, and AtHSF1–E388 were verified to have no intrinsic potential to activate lacZ expression (columns 1–3). Control yeast expressing AtTBP1 and Bicoid showed no lacZ activation (column 4).
!~MM~! AtHSF1 cDNA was expressed as His-tagged protein (Qiaexpressionist, Qiagen) CITATIONin E. coli and purified to homogeneity by repeated Ni2+ affinity chromatography. Recombinant 6×HisAtHSF1 protein was dialyzed in a buffer containing 50 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.5), 100 mM NaCl, and 10% glycerol, to eliminate contaminating Ni2+ ions released from the affinity column. AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 cDNAs provided by N.-H. Chua were expressed in E. coli using the pET system (Novagen), purified by binding to Ni2+ Sepharose, and dialyzed against binding buffer containing 20 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.8, 100 mM NaCl, 5 mM β-glycerophosphate, 5 mM MgCl2, 1 mM NaF, 10% glycerol, 0.01% NP40, 5 μg/ml leupeptin, aprotinin, pepstatin, and chymostatin. Recombinant AtHSF1 protein was coupled to CnBr-activated Sepharose 4B (Pharmacia) at a concentration of 4 mg/ml. 25 μg Sepharose-coupled AtHSF1 protein was incubated in binding buffer for 1 h at 4°C with 25 μg of recombinant AtTBP1 or AtTBP2 protein. As controls, recombinant glucuronidase protein (GUS; prepared as described in CITATION) and BSA (Sigma) were utilized. The AtHSF1-Sepharose was washed three times each with 300 μl binding buffer containing 200 mM NaCl. Proteins bound to the AtHSF1 matrix were eluted with binding buffer containing either 0.5 or 1.0 M NaCl. Volumetrically identical aliquots of eluted samples were electrophoresed on 10% SDS-PAGE and proteins were visualized by Coomassie staining. Oligonucleotide probes containing either consensus HSEs (5′-GGATCCTAGAAGCTTCCAGAAGCTTCTAGAAGCAGATC-3′) or mutated HSE sequences (HSEmut; 5′-GGATCCTATAAGCTTACATAAGCTTATATAAGCAGATC-3′) were processed as described CITATION. AtTBP1 and AtTBP2 binding to HSE probes was tested by incubation of 12 000 cpm of radiolabelled DNA with either 1 μg AtTBP1 or AtTBP2 protein in retardation buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl pH 7.8, 100 mM NaCl, 2 mM EGTA, 5 mM β-glycerophosphate, 2 mM MgCl2, 0.5 mM DTT, 1 mM NaF, 0.1 mM Na3VO4, and 10% glycerol) containing 0.75 μg poly(dIdC) unlabelled non-specific competitor DNA (Sigma) in a total volume of 20 μl. The reactions were incubated on ice for 1 h followed by 14 min at room temperature. To detect protein-protein interactions between AtHSF1 and AtTBP1 or AtTBP2, EMSA reactions containing 1 μg of each protein were used. Protein binding was allowed to proceed at room temperature for 10 min in binding buffer. To the reactions, retardation buffer containing radiolabelled oligonucleotide probes (12 000 cpm of either HSE or HSEmut) and 0.75 μg poly(dIdC) was added to a final volume of 20 μl. Following incubation at room temperature for 10 min, the reactions were loaded on native 4% polyacrylamide gels, electrophoresed in 0.5×TBE at 250 V for 2.5 h, vacuum dried and subjected to autoradiography. Standard manipulations of yeast were performed as described in Methods in Yeast Genetics CITATION. Full-length AtHSF1 cDNA and a C-terminal AtHSF1 deletion encoding 388 amino acids (AtHSF1–E388) were cloned as SalI fragments into pEG202 (HIS+) expressing AtHSF1 and AtHSF1–E388 proteins with a LexA DNA binding domain fusion. BamHI-SalI fragments of the Drosophila Bicoid cDNA (provided by R. Finley and R. Brent) were cloned into pEG202. AtTBP1 cDNA was cloned as a EcoRI-XhoI fragment into pJG4-5 (TRP+) under the control of a galactose-inducible promoter expressing AtTBP1 fusion proteins carrying an activation domain CITATION. All constructs were transformed into yeast strain EGY48 (MATa trp1 ura3 his3 LEU2::pLexAop6-LEU2) containing the reporter plasmid pSH18-34 (URA+), which directs expression of lacZ via GAL1 promoter-localized LexA operators. Transformants were selected for on medium containing galactose, but lacking histidine, uracil, tryptophan, and leucine. All yeast plates were incubated for 2 days at 30°C. An interaction between AtHSF1 and AtTBP1 activates transcription of leu2 leading to selectable leucine prototrophy. Reporter β-galactosidase activity was detected using CPRG (chlorophenol red-β-d-galactopyranoside, Boehringer Mannheim) as substrate in three independent measurements as described CITATION.
