!~ABS~! The mechanism by which the phytochrome (phy) photoreceptor family transduces informational light signals to photoresponsive genes is unknown. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we have identified a phytochrome-interacting factor, PIF3, a basic helix-loop-helix protein containing a PAS domain. PIF3 binds to wild-type C-terminal domains of both phyA and phyB, but less strongly to signaling-defective, missense mutant–containing domains. Expression of sense or antisense PIF3 sequences in transgenic Arabidopsis perturbs photoresponsiveness in a manner indicating that PIF3 functions in both phyA and phyB signaling pathways in vivo. PIF3 localized to the nucleus in transient transfection experiments, indicating a potential role in controlling gene expression. Together, the data suggest that phytochrome signaling to photoregulated genes includes a direct pathway involving physical interaction between the photoreceptor and a transcriptional regulator.
!~RES~! Based on the evidence that the C-terminal domain of the phytochromes may be directly involved in interactions with signaling partners ( CITATION ), we used this domain of phyB as bait in the yeast two-hybrid system to screen an Arabidopsis cDNA library ( CITATION ). From 6 × 10 6 colonies screened, 14 were isolated that were both His- and β-galactosidase-positive after rescue in E. coli and retransformation back into yeast. One, PIF3, was selected here for further study. Plate-growth assays on minus-His medium indicate that PIF3 interacts with the Arabidopsis phyB C-terminal domain in a selective manner, as no interaction was detected with the control protein VA3 ( CITATION ). On the other hand, PIF3 does cross-interact with the C-terminal domains of both rice phyB and Arabidopsis phyA ( CITATION ). Data from a pull-down experiment using phyB and PIF3 proteins synthesized by in vitro transcription/translation ( CITATION ) support the conclusion that PIF3 interacts directly with the photoreceptor molecules. Because of the evidence that point mutations clustering in the “core” region of phyA and phyB disrupt signal transfer to downstream components in vivo ( CITATION ), we tested whether a representative set of these mutations would interfere with the binding of PIF3 to the photoreceptor molecules. CITATION shows that each of the selected mutations substantially reduced the interaction of the three phytochromes tested in the quantitative yeast two-hybrid assay. Western blot analysis shows that this reduction is not due to reduced expression levels of the mutant proteins ( CITATION ). The coding sequence of the original PIF3 cDNA isolated in the two-hybrid screen appeared to be incomplete at the 5′ end. However, several clones subsequently isolated from a cDNA library appeared to contain a complete protein coding sequence and to be close to full length based on comparison to the single 1.6 kb transcript detected on Northern blots (data not shown). Southern blot analysis indicated that PIF3 is likely a single-copy gene (data not shown). We sequenced the PIF3 gene, determined its structure by comparison to the cDNA ( CITATION ), and mapped it to chromosome 1 near PHYA using an arrayed YAC library ( CITATION ). Subsequently, the sequence of a BAC designated F14J9 containing the PIF3 gene has been deposited in the databases. This BAC represents this same region of chromosome 1, thus verifying the location of PIF3 . The PIF3 protein contains a region of strong homology to the DNA-binding and dimerization domains of the bHLH protein superfamily ( CITATION ) ( CITATION and CITATION ). This sequence similarity is clear in alignments with sequences from a variety of organisms, including two known factors from Arabidopsis , RAP1 ( CITATION ) and rd22bp1 ( CITATION ) ( CITATION ). PIF3 also contains a classical bipartite nuclear localization signal (NLS) motif ( CITATION CITATION ). Outside the bHLH domain, PIF3 has little sequence similarity to other known proteins, except for a region of limited similarity to a single PAS domain in the N-terminal half of the molecule ( CITATION and CITATION ). It is of interest that the strongest similarities are with the PAS domains of the phytochromes and the PYP photoreceptor ( CITATION ). A prominent subclass of bHLH proteins, including the clock proteins ARNT, SIM, and BMAL ( CITATION ), contain PAS domains ( CITATION ), but the molecular architecture is different than that of PIF3. To test for PIF3 involvement in phytochrome signaling in vivo, we generated multiple, independent transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing either sense or antisense PIF3 cDNA sequences driven by the CaMV 35S promoter and assayed for photoresponsiveness. Transgenic lines segregating for a single T-DNA locus, as determined by basta resistance, were selected for further analysis and for production of progeny homozygous for the transgenic locus. CITATION shows Rc and FRc fluence-rate response curves for one homozygous PIF3-sense line (S38) and one homozygous PIF3-antisense line (A22) compared to wild type. The data indicate that the PIF3-sense line is marginally more sensitive to Rc and FRc of higher fluence rates. By contrast, the PIF3-antisense line displays a striking reduction in sensitivity to Rc, with a significant but less pronounced effect of FRc, primarily at lower fluence rates. The absence of any difference from wild type in dark-grown seedlings ( CITATION ) establishes that these phenotypic differences are light dependent. Moreover, examination of segregating T1 populations of the S38 and A22 lines for photoresponsiveness, coupled with assay of individual seedlings from these populations by PCR for the presence of the transgene, established that these light-dependent phenotypes cosegregate with the T-DNA insertion (data not shown). We examined several other independent transgenic lines homozygous for the transgene for consistency of the phenotypes observed for S38 and A22. All additional sense lines exhibited marginally enhanced sensitivity to Rc and FRc, similar to that of S38, albeit somewhat less pronounced ( CITATION , left). All sense lines express substantially elevated levels of PIF3 mRNA relative to wild type ( CITATION , left). Similarly, the additional antisense lines exhibited reduced Rc and FRc sensitivity, qualitatively similar to that of A22 ( CITATION , right). The strength of the phenotype is roughly correlated with the extent of the reduction in PIF3 transcript levels in the antisense lines ( CITATION , right). These data indicate that the phenotypes observed are unlikely to be due to inadvertant disruption of an endogenous gene by the T-DNA insert and are most likely due to increases or decreases in PIF3 levels generated by expression of the sense and antisense PIF3 sequences, respectively. Similarly, the absence of differences in phyA and phyB levels between the wild-type and transgenic lines ( CITATION ) indicates that the phenotypes are not due to indirect effects of the PIF3 -sense or -antisense constructs on photoreceptor levels. In addition to the long hypocotyl phenotype induced by PIF3-antisense expression, we also observed diminished rates of light-induced hook opening and cotyledon separation, reduced cotyledon expansion, and early flowering (data not shown). To determine whether the involvement of PIF3 in phytochrome signaling could be observed at the gene expression level, we selected three genes whose light-regulated expression has been well studied: two positively regulated genes, CAB and CHS , and one negatively regulated gene, PHYA ( CITATION ). CITATION shows that all three genes are regulated in the expected fashion in wild-type seedlings. CAB and CHS mRNA levels are strongly enhanced, and PHYA mRNA levels are reduced in both Rc and FRc, consistent with the involvement of both phyA and phyB in this regulation. By contrast, the photoresponsiveness of all three genes is altered to a greater or lesser extent in the PIF3-antisense A22 line ( CITATION ). A clear reduction in the extent of CAB and CHS induction, as well as of PHYA repression, relative to wild type is observed in the A22 line in response to Rc. Similar but less pronounced reductions in the effectiveness of FRc on CAB and CHS induction are also apparent in the A22 line relative to wild type, while no detectable effects on PHYA repression are observed. Similar results were obtained in three separate experiments. Because of the sequence similarity of PIF3 to members of the nuclear-localized bHLH family and the presence of a putative bipartite NLS ( CITATION ), we examined the subcellular localization of a PIF3:GUS fusion in a transient transfection assay using onion epidermal cells ( CITATION ). The data show that, under continuous white light, the PIF3:GUS protein is strongly localized to the nucleus in these cells, in contrast to the GUS protein alone ( CITATION ). In other experiments involving a terminal FR pulse irradiation and dark incubation after bombardment, the PIF3:GUS fusion protein was also strongly localized to the nucleus (data not shown), indicating the absence of phytochrome-regulated control of localization in these cells.
!~MM~! The Matchmaker two-hybrid system (Clontech, CA) was used for the yeast two-hybrid screen in the presence of 20 mM 3-aminotrizole (3-AT). Yeast transformation, filter and liquid β-galactosidase activity assay, and plasmid pACT rescue into E. coli HB101 were according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The λACT cDNA expression library was a gift from Drs. J. Kim and A. Theologis and was converted to a pACT library according to CITATION . For quantitative interaction assays, phyA and phyB C-terminal domains (residues 645 to 1210; CITATION ) and the PIF3 cDNA were amplified by PCR with primers containing restriction sites and cloned into pGBT9 or pGAD424. The point mutations in phyA or phyB molecules were made using a QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit (Stratagene, La Jolla, CA). For β-galactosidase activity and Western blot assay ( CITATION ), yeast was grown overnight in SD selection medium, diluted 1 to 5 in YPD medium, and grown for an additional 3 to 4 hr at 30°C. Total protein was extracted by resuspending cells in 2 to 3 volumes of PBS buffer containing 1 mM PMSF, 2 mM EDTA, 0.1% 2-mercaptoethanol, 5 mM benzamidine, 0.5% Triton X-100 and vortexing for 2 min in the presence of an equal volume of acid-washed glass beads (425–600 μm, Sigma). The monoclonal antibodies against the Gal4 DNA-binding domain (GBD) or Gal4 activation domain (GAD) used to monitor fusion-protein expression in yeast were from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA). The GAD template was made by ligation of the T7 promoter to PCR-amplified GAD DNA using a Lig’nScribe kit (Ambion, Austin, TX). The Arabidopsis phyB C-terminal domain (645–1210) (A-phyB) and the GAD:full-length PIF3 fusion protein (GAD:PIF3) templates were amplified by PCR using primers containing restriction sites and cloned into the NcoI–SalI or NdeI–BamHI sites, respectively, of pET15b or pET3b vectors (Novagen, Madison, WI). Each encoded protein was synthesized separately in vitro using 35 S-Met in the TNT in vitro transcription/translation system (Promega, Madison, WI). The binding reaction was conducted by mixing A-phyB (2.5 fmol) with either GAD (10 fmol) or GAD:PIF3 (10 fmol) and incubating at 4°C for 2 hr in 0.8 ml PBS buffer (pH 7.4) containing 0.1% NP-40, 0.1% BSA, 1 μg/ml aprotenin, 1 μg/ml leupeptin, 1 μg/ml pepstatin, 5 mM benzamidine, 1 mM PMSF, 1 μg monoclonal antibody against GAD, and 20 μl protein A/G plus agarose (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, CA). The beads were pelleted and washed six times with the above buffer without BSA and PMSF. The proteins from the pellet (entire fraction) and supernatant (1/20th of the volume) were resolved on a 13% SDS-PAGE gel and visualized by autoradiography. The original PIF3 cDNA isolated in the yeast two-hybrid screen lacked the first 63 amino acids at the N terminus. Full-length cDNAs were isolated from the CD4-14 λZapII cDNA library ( CITATION ) using the GeneTrapper cDNA positive selection system (Life Technologies). The PIF3 genomic sequence was amplified by PCR with a 5′ primer complementary to a 21 bp sequence in the 5′ untranslated region of the PIF3 cDNA, 84 bp upstream of the ATG codon, and with a 3′ primer complementary to a 21 bp sequence immediately upstream of the TGA codon. The amplified PCR products were sequenced using an ABI 373 sequencer. Flanking genomic sequence outside the cDNA sequence was subsequently obtained from BACF14J9 (GenBank accession number AC003970 ). A binary vector, pKF111, modified from pBin19 to contain a basta-resistance, selectable-marker gene for plant transformation was a gift from Dr. K. Franke. PIF3-sense and -antisense cDNA constructs were made by PCR amplification with restriction site–containing primers and directionally cloned into the pFK111 vector, under the control of the 35S CaMV promoter and followed by a 35S CaMV terminator. The sense construct covered the PIF3 coding region from residue 64 to the stop codon because the full-length sequence appeared to be toxic to E. coli when cloned into the binary vector. The antisense construct covered the entire coding region from start to stop codons. The vectors were then electroporated into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 (MP90) and Arabidopsis was transformed by vacuum infiltration ( CITATION ). Five milligrams/liter of glufosinate-ammonium (Riededel-de Haen, Germany) was used for transgenic plant selection. Seeds were pretreated as described ( CITATION ) and grown at 22°C on GM medium minus sucrose under the various light conditions specified in the figure legends. Rc and FRc light sources were as described ( CITATION ), and fluence rates were monitored using a spectroradiometer (Model LI-1800; Li-Cor, Lincoln, NE). Hypocotyl lengths were measured using a Pixera professional digital camera (Pixera, Cupertino, CA) and NIH image software (public domain, Bethesda, MD). For RT-PCR analysis of transcript levels, total RNA was isolated using RNeasy plant mini kits (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and treated with RQ1 RNase-free DNase (Promega, Madison, WI). Eight nanograms of RNA was used for PIF3-sense RT-PCR analysis and 16 ng for PIF3-antisense RT-PCR analysis using the primers 15F (5′-CGCAGGAACCACTAATTACTA-3′), which anneals to the 5′ end of the probe indicated in CITATION , and 15R (5′-CAGGCAAGCCCATTGCATAAG-3′), which anneals to the reverse orientation of the 3′ end of the probe indicated in CITATION and the access RT-PCR* system (Promega, Madison, WI). As a control, PHYE -specific primers E5 (CAGCTGCAAGCAACATGAAACCTC) and E3 (TCCTCCGGGAAGTGACTGCAGCCTAGA) were used to amplify a 624 bp sequence in an RT-PCR reaction. The resultant PCR products were separated on a 1.2% agarose gel, blotted, and hybridized with the probe described in CITATION for PIF3 and with a PCR probe amplified using E5 and E3 primers for PHYE . Protein extracts were prepared from seedlings according to CITATION , except the ethylene glycol was omitted from the extraction buffer. phyA and phyB were detected by Western blot using phyA- and phyB-specific monoclonal antibodies ( CITATION ). For analysis of light-regulated genes, total RNA was isolated as above and subjected to Northern blot analysis ( CITATION ). Hybridization probes for CAB , CHS , and 18S rRNA were made from purified DNA fragments as described by CITATION . The hybridization probe for PHYA was made by PCR amplification of a PHYA cDNA clone (nt 1935 to 3630) ( CITATION ). The probes were labeled with 32 P-dCTP using a multiprime DNA labeling system RPN 1600 (Amersham, IL). The plasmid pRTL2-GUS/NIaΔBam ( CITATION ) was digested with BamHI and BglII to release the NIa coding region. The full-length PIF3 open reading frame was amplified by PCR with primers creating BamHI sites immediately 5′ to the ATG and 3′ to the TGA and cloned into pRTL2-GUS/NIaΔBam, creating the GUS:PIF3 fusion driven by the CaMV 35S promoter. Onion epidermal cells were transfected with either pRTL2-GUS ( CITATION ) or GUS:PIF3 plasmids using a helium biolistic gun transformation system (DuPont, Wilmington, DE) as described ( CITATION ) and incubated in the light for 24 hr at 25°C. The location of β-glucuronidase activity was determined by using X-gluc, and nuclei were identified using the DNA-specific stain DAPI (1 μg/ml) ( CITATION ). The subcellular localization of the blue precipitate was visualized using a Zeiss Axiophot microscope and compared to the DAPI staining in the same cells using fluorescence optics. Transfections were repeated three times, and a minimum of 30 cells for each construct were analyzed from each experiment. * To whom correspondence should be addressed (e-mail: quail@nature.berkeley.edu).
